---
id: 336
name: 'Building No-Code Apps with AppSheet: Foundations'
datePublished: 2025-03-18
topics:
- AppSheet
- No-code
type: Course
url: https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336
---

# [Building No-Code Apps with AppSheet: Foundations](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336)

**Description:**

In this course you will learn the fundamentals of no-code app development and recognize use cases for no-code apps. The course provides an overview of the AppSheet no-code app development platform and its capabilities. You learn how to create an app with data from spreadsheets, create the app's user experience using AppSheet views and publish the app to end users.

**Objectives:**

- Learn about no-code app development and the use cases for building no-code apps.
- Learn to navigate the AppSheet UI and editor to build and test a no-code app.
- Learn the publishing process to deploy and publish an app for end users.
- Create and deploy a simple app.

## Introduction

Introducing the AppSheet course.

### Video - [Course Introduction](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526876)

- [YouTube: Course Introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-9BdsWGvLYQ)

Hansel: Do you want to learn the fundamentals of no-code application development and build no-code apps using Google Cloud's AppSheet? If so, this course is for you. Hi. I'm Hansel, a Technical Curriculum Developer at Google Cloud. And I'm here to teach you about Google Cloud's no-code development platform, AppSheet. AppSheet helps in digitizing and automating manual or paper-based business process, to turn them into mobile [Indistinct] apps. This course introduces you to the fundamentals of no-code application development and teaches you the basics of the AppSheet platform. The material teaches you about no-code app development and provides an overview of AppSheet's capabilities. You'll learn how to build a basic application using data from Google Sheets. This course is designed for anyone who wants to learn the fundamentals of no-code application development and build no-code apps. No specific technical background for the course is required. Through a series of video lectures, lab exercises and quizzes, become familiar with the process of designing and creating apps to implement common business functions. This course provides an overview of the AppSheet no-code app development platform. It introduces you to AppSheet's capabilities and the AppSheet UI and developer that is used to build no-code apps. Learn about the building blocks used to build an app, connect the app to Google Sheets as data sources, build the app's user experience and publish the app for end users. Using the knowledge and skills gained from this course, you will be able to successfully create and use apps using Google Cloud's AppSheet development platform. Let's get started.

## AppSheet Overview

Define the fundamentals of no-code app development and provide an overview of AppSheet capabilities.

### Video - [Module Overview](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526877)

- [YouTube: Module Overview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BcI_7LjL4Yw)

Welcome to the introductory module on AppSheet. In this module, we briefly discuss the history and evolution of apps and the fundamentals of no-code application development. We discuss what is no-code app development and some of the benefits of using no-code app development tools like AppSheet. You will also learn about the AppSheet product, its capabilities and review use cases for creating no-code apps within an enterprise.

### Video - [History of apps](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526878)

- [YouTube: History of apps](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BcpoAU7cVdI)

Person: Let's first briefly talk about how apps came to be. In the old days there were mobile phones that had simple games and other computer programs that performed specific utility functions. These programs or applications were limited to what they could do on the phone due to the memory, network bandwidth and other resource constraints. Then something happened in 2007, Apple launched the iPhone. This made it possible for independent computer programmers to create powerful apps for use with a touch screen interface. To access these apps, consumers simply download them from the Apple App Store. Google, Samsung and others have also developed smart phones based on the Android-operating system. Apps developed for Android-based phones are downloaded from the Google Play Store. The result was an explosion of apps that served various functions, apps for social networking, shopping, travel, games and finance are available. There are many more categories of apps available that consumers can download and use today. Apps can serve various functions in different business domains. Businesses develop internal and external apps for use by their employees, partners and customers. To build apps, you generally require software development and programming skills. But this is soon changing, as we will see in the next lesson.

### Video - [Fundamentals of no-code app development](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526879)

- [YouTube: Fundamentals of no-code app development](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EAH8hob2mWg)

Person: Let's discuss the fundamentals of no-code app development. What is no-code app development? It's the process of developing apps without writing any code. SaaS-based no-code platforms empower businesses to create software exponentially faster and with less money than a traditional code-based approach. No-code app development projects reach completion upwards of 10 times faster than traditional coding projects. No-code development should not be confused with low-code development, which requires some amount of coding. Traditional developers use low-code platforms to simplify and expedite coding, while nontechnical professionals use no-code platforms to build applications without writing any code. In a true no-code platform, a business user does not need to know how to code in order to create a piece of software. The platform handles the technical heavy lifting, which allows the app creator to focus on the creation of effective apps that align with their organization's needs. Why should you use no-code app development? There are many benefits of no-code platforms. Let's review them. No-code platforms provide a faster time to deployment. Apps built through traditional software development can take months or even years to launch. In today's fast-paced business environment, it's not uncommon for workers to request apps to help solve problems, only to leave or transfer roles before the software is completed. Using a no-code platform however can change this dynamic. No-code development makes it possible to build and deploy a business management app for a task like inventory management in far less time so employees can easily implement the apps they need to do their jobs. No-code platforms enhance productivity. Businesses across all vertical markets are continuously looking to improve productivity. A no-code app platform can boost productivity by putting easy-to-use apps in the hands of workers who oversee complex tasks. An app can simplify data entry, task management and project management, thus enabling greater output with improved visibility across teams. Empowered workers: Each year, millions of talented workers leave their jobs because they feel unmotivated, unproductive or unhappy. Boredom or a lack of purpose is one of the greatest challenges facing the global workforce today. A no-code platform can do more than just boost productivity. It can make workers feel empowered by giving them the ability to digitize routine work. Using a no-code platform, line of business workers can identify manual tasks that can be automated, create an app and move on to do more interesting and fulfilling tasks. If there's one field in particular that could use more empowerment, it's information technology. Many IT workers are overworked and overburdened by having to manage too many projects. No-code development can help here, too. A no-code platform can reduce the IT project backlog. Most IT workers and software developers want to create software that solves challenging problems. By using a no-code platform to develop business or productivity apps and tools, you can reduce the backlog for IT and allow their skills to be put to better use. Improved security: Creating apps with custom code can lead to a variety of security issues. Such apps are difficult to secure, with the majority of tested apps containing one or more session management vulnerabilities and others with input validation errors. When leveraging a no-code platform, you can rest assured that all of your apps will have strong foundational security elements in place that include industry-standard security protocols, practices to ensure your data is secure and built-in mechanisms to prevent unauthorized users from seeing sensitive data. Apps that are built using no-code development platforms are compliant with your organization's policies which are set by IT administrators. Cleaner data: Data input errors slow down data entry and can delay a project. It's not always easy for field workers in industries such as construction, utilities and warehouse operations to enter data into spreadsheets or paper forms. Workers often have to work quickly in areas with limiting lighting or adverse weather conditions. By using an app in these fields of work, you can immediately validate input data and ensure that only valid and consistent data is used in all front-end and back-end systems. No-code applications help reduce the use of paper. Paper-based systems are expensive to administer, insecure and inaccurate because paper got lost or stolen and must be meticulously filed and tracked. Using no-code platforms, organizations can replace paper-based methods with smartphones and tablets to provide easier data entry, more storage, immediate access to records and other benefits. No-code platforms help a mobile and dispersed workforce to stay connected and thus be more productive while on the move. In most companies, bring your own device or BYOD is now a basic demand for workers who want centralized access to tasks and data over a single device. A large percentage of employees now use personal devices at work, and many businesses rely on their employees' ability to access mobile business apps from their smartphones. No-code platforms help IT to mobilize and leverage BYOD in secure and easy to manage ways. Since a no-code platform is cloud-based, apps are built from a central location and are easily deployed to team members over the Internet. No-code platforms improve communication. Internal chat-based applications are great for keeping teams in the loop throughout the day. Although they're good for messaging and file sharing, they're less effective for moving projects along to completion. With a no-code platform, it's possible to build a communications element directly into your apps. For example, you can create certain forms that automatically send out e-mails or SMS notifications when they are completed. This is especially useful in an environment like aerospace engineering, where nonconformance reports have to be checked off and closed before projects can be completed. No-code applications reduce operational expenditures. Packaged software applications are expensive and can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. Building the apps in-house requires experienced software developers who command high salaries, which makes this an expensive option. By developing your own apps using a no-code platform, you'll spend a fraction of the budget you'd have to set aside to develop apps the traditional way. Who uses no-code app development platforms? Since the early days of software in the 1960s and '70s, there has been a clear distinction between software developers and everyone else. The system was created out of necessity because soft development used to be incredibly difficult and time-consuming to learn and master. With the onset of no-code platforms, app development is now transitioning to citizen developers, which means that everyone from custodial teams to C-level executives can create and customize apps that make their jobs more efficient and effective. Three types of workers are typically involved in no-code app development. The first is process owners. These are nontechnical or technical employees such as project managers and IT developers who are in a position to spearhead app development. The second is decision makers. These are executives who have the vision and power to approve no-code app development, and third is end users. These are employees who will benefit from using apps on a daily basis. Many types of professionals in numerous settings using no-code platforms, a concept that sometimes makes some people uneasy. Business administrators, for example, often wonder if they should trust nontechnical employees to create software. No-code platforms like AppSheet contain built-in safeguards for app creation. These platforms are simple and declarative by design so that anyone who knows how to operate software can build apps. App creation varies in level of complexity. Some training may be needed for advanced projects. However, no-code platforms do not require much time or expertise to get started. As much as 80 percent of business productivity apps can be created using no-code platforms. A relatively small number of apps, such as highly advanced medical or scientific software systems require expert software developers.

### Video - [What is AppSheet?](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526880)

- [YouTube: What is AppSheet?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VKPb_yqLagU)

Person: Let's now review Google Cloud's AppSheet product. Ever wished you could have a tool that would help your mobile workforce stay connected and work better remotely, but don't have the skills internally nor the budget to develop such a tool? Well, wish no more. With AppSheet anyone can make an app. AppSheet apps can be mobile or desktop-based and can serve many different functions. AppSheet is a no-code platform that enables organizations to develop and launch applications at scale. Let's look at how AppSheet works. AppSheet connects with services across the entire Google ecosystem. AppSheet apps can be developed to implement various business functions that collect data, including images, bar codes and signatures, manage and process the data by applying business logic and share insights into the data by generating reports, dashboards and notifications. AppSheet apps can be deployed and used externally or internally in your organization. They can be used in the field to implement various business processes, like fleet management, inspections and contractor and work order management. They can be used in the store or on the shop floor for inventory management, bar code scanning, incident reporting, et cetera. They can be used with customers for event management and sales support. And they can be used internally for HR management, IT ticketing and project management. AppSheet supports a wide variety of data sources, including spreadsheets and databases that can be used with your app. AppSheet enables you to implement data and integration policies, security and app design and content authoring, which allows you to establish a set of governance practices through the app development life cycle. Using AppSheet, process owners in different organization departments can create apps in a consistent manner, following best practices. Users interact with your apps using mobile phones, tablets or desktops to retrieve and update data. There are various capabilities of app sheet that enable you to build rich feature-filled applications, these include various types of views, including tables, galleries, charts and maps, forms and other user controls to capture user data, branding, color themes and localization features. It also includes security features, like secure sign-on via Google, Microsoft, Dropbox and other providers and users, groups and sensitive data management. It includes process automation that enables you to create basic automation to send e-mail, SMS and push notifications and implement advanced automation workflows. It includes capabilities for optical character recognition and machine learning. It includes data source access and integration features that enable you to access sources in Google Workspace, Office 365, Dropbox and other providers and integrate with cloud databases and SaaS providers. And it includes management, governance and reporting that enables you to manage the app-user life cycle and track user activity, usage and error reporting.

### Video - [AppSheet use cases](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526881)

- [YouTube: AppSheet use cases](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=quaKLr46VC8)

Person: We'll now go over the various use cases where you can build apps with no-code app development platforms, like AppSheet. So what can you actually build with no-code platforms? Unlike industry-specific plug-and-play management software products, that confine you to certain parameters, no-code platforms are completely open-ended and let you design feature-rich apps from existing data sources. In other words, no-code platforms provide versatility to app creators and users. Here are some of the ways that you can use no-code platforms to increase your organization's effectiveness. Inventory, tracking inventory and other company assets manually using spreadsheets or paper is time consuming and error prone. Using no-code platforms, you can build an inventory or asset-tracker app to track company assets in real time and avoid confusion and unnecessary delays. Customer service, creating a smooth customer experience for your customers go a long way to build loyalty for your brands and products. Using no-code platforms, you can build a variety of frontline and customer experience apps for product safety alerts, appointment management, check-in and checkout, et cetera. HR management, there are many off-the-shelf HR software applications that can help manage HR operations. However, these products often lack the customization required to implement an organization's unique requirements. Using no-code platforms, you can build customized apps that are tailored to your organization's unique HR needs in the areas of document management, event coordination, new hire, et cetera. There are various operational processes that are involved in the many functional areas of an enterprise. These functional areas can include office automation, customer engagement and relationship management, field services and logistics, accounting and finance and project management. AppSheet can be used to build apps that implement these processes. Now, think about a process or business problem in your own organization that is currently manual or tedious, in any of these areas that you're familiar with. Can these processes or tasks by automated using an app? By implementing an app to replace those tedious and repetitive tasks, will users who use the app become more efficient? And will the entire process or task be completed on time, thereby improving the overall efficiency of the business?

### Video - [Demo](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526882)

- [YouTube: Demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=93UrsYzbl_8)

Hansel: Welcome to AppSheet. This demo provides a high-level overview of AppSheet and its capabilities. Using the AppSheet UI, you can create apps quickly and intuitively. Let's start by looking at the experience for new citizen developers starting to use AppSheet. AppSheet uses a self-service onboarding process. Anyone can sign up for AppSheet and have an app prototype ready to customize in under 5 minutes. To sign in, navigate to appsheet.com in your browser and click log in. AppSheet supports many cloud providers for authentication and for connecting AppSheet apps to data sources that are stored in these accounts. For this demo, we use a Google account, so let's sign in with Google. We provide our credentials to log into Google and provide the consent to allow AppSheet to access our files on Google Drive. The apps that we create will consume data from spreadsheets that are stored on Drive. Once logged in, you land on the My Apps page in the AppSheet UI. If you have any previously created apps, they are listed on this page under deployed apps or prototype apps. These are apps that are either fully deployed and available to end users or are in the design and building stages as prototypes. This page has a top menu where you can access your account, team, read documentation and perform other functions. To create a new app, click make a new app under Quick Start. There are three ways to start creating an app. You can start with a sample or template app and modify it based on the requirements. There are more than 50 publicly available templates that help provide a foundation for common app use cases across a variety of business functions. Or you can choose to start with an idea and let AppSheet guide you through the process. If you have an idea for an app but no existing data, you can use natural language to describe the app functionality and have the data schema and source automatically generated in your connected account. If you have data already available, you can start by connecting an initial data set from the connected cloud provider account. We will use this method for the demo, so click start with your own data. Give the app a name and choose a category. We're going to create a field servicing app, so we'll choose the field service category from the list. Then click choose your data. Select Google. You can also connect data sets from additional data sources by adding a cloud provider account here. Then select the data set from Google Drive using the file picker. For this demo, we will use a Google Sheet that contains field team servicing and other data to build the app. We select the demo field services data sheet. Now while the data source is being connected, the platform is interpreting the column structure and data types from the sheet in order to automatically generate a relevant app prototype that's useful for the field service team. The contents of the job sheet includes a job ID, details, job status and customer and product information. Once the app is created, you click on start customizing to continue to build the app. The platform has already created the live function prototype for you to customize, and it can also be already be used on devices. By default, the data tables tab is selected in the editor. You can see the job details stored in the sheet are incorporated into this app prototype with the job locations plotted on a map. So what typically takes months of skilled labor to create was just generated automatically in seconds, and now the AppSheet editor will help the developer customize it in a user-friendly way. The prototype is already a live functioning app that can be opened on a user's mobile device to preview and test. The value of the authoring environment is rooted in how easily customizations can be made and how quickly the app can be updated and maintained as the team uses it. Let's now look at the important parts of the app creation process. Each section of the product includes intelligent suggestions for adding relevant functionality to the application. For example, in the data tables section, there are suggestions to add the product, documents and customers tables in the app as well. These suggestions enable app functionality ranging from new data connections, views or entire automation processes in a single click. In the UX or user experience section of the editor, you can see that AppSheet has already created a jobs view and a map view based on the data in the spreadsheet. These are the two primary views in the app for users to view service jobs and their service locations. You can zoom into a specific job location by clicking on a map pin. AppSheet automatically displays the job ID and description in the app. To view details about a specific job, click on that job ID to go to the details view. To add a new job, you select jobs from the bottom navigation menu in the app and click on the add icon to add a new job. AppSheet displays a system-generated form view for your app that the user can use to input details about a new service job. Let's fill out the form. Provide a description of the job details, the actual product, the status of requested which is the initial status, customer information, the address of the customer and the employee who's filling out this job. Provide a product image and save the job via the app. This is the new job that has been created. We can view the details and edit it if required. Assuming the job is ready to be serviced, we can change the status of the job by clicking the edit icon in the app and change the status accordingly. As the user is creating their app, detailed learning material tutorials and relevant documentation is made available as a starting point and then also recommended along the way associated with different features. The website provides you a vast selection of topics on various AppSheet product features. Here you can search for any topic you need help on to find out answers and suggestions. AppSheet also has a vibrant community of users. You can view answers to questions from other AppSheet users or pose your own question. The community also has vast information that includes product announcements, tips and tricks and other resources for app creators. Make sure to sign up. Anyone can also start using AppSheet for free using the self-service trial to sign up. You can click Start For Free to sign up for a new account and start using AppSheet. AppSheet supports a wide variety of cloud provider accounts that you can use to supply data to your apps. This completes the short demo on an overview of AppSheet. The app that was built in this demo is a real-world business application, and it was easily created without writing any software or code. Thanks for watching.

### Quiz - [Quiz 1](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/quizzes/526883)

### Video - [Module Review](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526884)

- [YouTube: Module Review](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ct6Xi1Tr_es)

Person: Congratulations on completing this module on AppSheet. Let's do a quick review. In this module, we discussed the fundamentals of no-code application development and the benefits of building and using no-code apps. We provided an overview of Google Cloud's AppSheet product and its capabilities that enable you to develop no-code apps. We also reviewed some of the use cases and scenarios where AppSheet can be used to build apps to implement operational processes and solve business problems in the enterprise.

### Document - [Reading: AppSheet use cases and sample apps](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/documents/526885)

## Getting Started

How to get started using AppSheet and understand the AppSheet editor user interface.

### Video - [Module Overview](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526886)

- [YouTube: Module Overview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8lZ5EQ3CDyA)

Welcome to the module on getting started with AppSheet. In this module, you’ll learn how to get started by signing in to AppSheet using a cloud provider account from Google. You will explore how to create your first app using the AppSheet Editor and how to connect it to your data source. We’ll briefly discuss the ways you can test and share your app, and do a lab to create a basic app using AppSheet. Finally, we will review what was discussed in this module.

### Video - [Signing in to AppSheet](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526887)

- [YouTube: Signing in to AppSheet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rt7eb_GxmsU)

Person: Let's start with first discussing how to sign in to AppSheet. You can sign in to AppSheet using this URL, AppSheet.com/Account/Login. The AppSheet sign-in process uses third-party authentication with data providers. AppSheet uses OAuth for authentication and must be granted consent to manage data that is stored with the provider. For example, you can sign in with Google using your Google account or Workspace credentials. Next, choose the Google account you want to sign into to Google with. Note that, for the labs in this course, an account will be provided. During the sign-in process, you provide consent and agree to allow AppSheet to access and manage your files stored in Google Drive, in your account. You are then presented with a pop-up window that provides options to start creating an app. We'll discuss this in the next lesson in this module. After you sign in, the My Apps page of the AppSheet UI is displayed. If you are just beginning with AppSheet and have not created any apps yet, the My Apps page will be empty. Otherwise, this page will list any apps that have been created. From the My Apps page, you can navigate to other areas in AppSheet to manage your account and team, access sample apps, get help by reviewing product documentation and community articles and much more.

### Video - [Creating your first app](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526888)

- [YouTube: Creating your first app](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EwE7WSDtZO4)

In this lesson, we discuss how you can create your first app in AppSheet and connect it to a data source. Building an app in AppSheet is an intuitive process. You use the AppSheet UI, which includes an editor, to build and configure your app. There are three ways you can build your app using using the AppSheet UI. The first option allows you to start by defining your app details and connecting an initial dataset from your provider account. With the second option, if you have ideas for your app but no existing data, you can use natural language to describe your app functionality and have the data schema and source automatically generated in your connected account. The third option allows you to start with a sample app. In the AppSheet editor, you have access to 50 or more publicly available templates that help provide a foundation for common app use cases across a variety of business functions. In this lesson, you will learn how to create an app by connecting to an existing Google Sheet as the data source. We have broken down this process into six steps which I'll take you through now. To create an app by connecting to an existing Google Sheet, you must first prepare the sheet that you want to use. Your AppSheet account always has access to a primary data source from the provider account that you initially used to sign in, for example Google Drive. You can use spreadsheets and other documents from that account in your apps. Here are some ways to prepare spreadsheets that you want to use with your app. Provide meaningful header columns in bold in the first row of your sheet. Naming your columns appropriately helps AppSheet identify the type of data that is stored in each column. Make sure the data type format is the same for each cell in a column. For example, if you have a column with dates, make sure that all of the cells in the column use the same date format. Orient the data in your sheet vertically with a header row at the top and data rows beneath it so that a row is added to the sheet for new data. To make sure AppSheet can read your data correctly, set up your data with column headers in the first row and rows of data underneath. We will discuss preparing and leveraging data for your apps in more detail in a later model. After your data is set up, you'll need to connect it to AppSheet. AppSheet does not host your data but does interact with it based on how you set up your app. You can connect AppSheet to your data in one of three ways. Your first option is to connect your data source and set up your account from the My Account tab in the AppSheet UI. To set up your data source from a cloud provider account, you must first sign into that account using your account credentials. AppSheet supports many data source cloud providers as shown here. Another way you can connect to a new data source is by going to your My Apps page and clicking “Make a new app.” By starting with your own data, you can configure the app with the data source. You can select a data source from your existing cloud provider account or add a new data source from a different cloud provider. To use a different cloud provider, you must follow the same process as discussed previously to sign into the cloud provider account and select the data source for the app. Finally if you use Google Sheets, you can connect your data to AppSheet directly from your sheet by clicking Tools, AppSheet, Create an app. After you have connected your data, you can add capabilities to your app by using the AppSheet editor. These capabilities include interacting with data via the app, performing actions by using app behaviors, viewing data in the app through different types of views, running automated processes in response to events, and much more. To modify the capabilities of the app by using the AppSheet editor, go to the main navigation menu on the left side of the editor where you'll see several menu items. By default the editor displays the contents of these menu items in the center section of the UI. Let's review each of these options. Info let's you see and manage the technical details of your app. Data let's you define how AppSheet is connected to your data. UX let's you create and customize views along with the look and feel of your app. Behavior let's you create buttons for navigating in the app, initiating external links and triggering data workflows. Automation enables you to define automated processes to run in response to certain events. Security enables you to define security features for your app such as requiring users to sign in. Intelligence let's you incorporate machine learning into your app, such as sentiment analysis, predictive analytics, and optical character recognition. Under Manage, you can manage app versions, monitor usage and performance, and much more. Finally, whenever you make edits to your app, the Save button in the top right corner turns blue. Make sure you click it so your edits are saved. The next steps show how you can implement some of these capabilities in your app. We first start with specifying how your data is used by the app. To specify how your data is being used, go to the Data tab. By default, the AppSheet editor lists the data source or table that was used to create the app, here called customer details. To add additional tables to your app, click on New Table. To select the data source from your existing cloud provider, for example Google Drive as shown here, click the appropriate button and select the file. You can also add a data source from a new cloud provider account by clicking the add button and following the steps to sign into your account and choose your file. To access the list of columns that make up the table, click on the Columns tab. Here you can click the table name to see a list of columns that make up the table. The columns structure of your connected data determines the features that can be added to your app. For example, if you want to capture and display images in your app, there must be a column in your table whose type is set as Image. Here are two other examples of the properties you can set. If you want the table columns value to be displayed in your app, select the show box for that column. For data that you do not want displayed in the app, clear the show box. Type let's you specify what type of data is in each column. For example, if you have an address column in your table, you need to make sure that the column type is set to Address. We will describe setting up your table columns in the next module. By clicking on the pencil icon to the left of each column, you can modify the properties of the column to change how the app interacts with the data that is stored in the column. Let's discuss how to create views and customize the look and feel of your app. AppSheet makes it easy to create views for your app by providing ready to use view templates that you can customize. Each page you see in your app is known as a view. Note that AppSheet may suggest views based on the data that is connected to the app. You might want these views in your app, but if not you can use different types of views. You will learn how to use views in later modules in this course. To list existing views of the app, go to the UX tab. UX stands for user experience or how people interact with your app. This tab lists the app's primary views that are available to users when interacting with the app. Other system views are also listed in this tab. To create a new view for your app, in the view section click New View. From here you can update the view name, select which data source the view should use, choose the type of view such as calendar, deck, map, form, chart, and card to name a few. You can play around with each view to see which one works best. Choose how the view can be accessed by setting its position. Along the main navigation bar, along the bottom of your app, via the menu in the top left corner of your app, or by a reference from another view using the ref position. In the View Options section, you can specify how to sort and group the data and other display options. To customize your app's look and feel, use the Brand, Format Views, Options, and Localize tabs where you can specify your theme, colors, logos and much more. We will discuss this in more detail in a later model of this course. Finally, you can create custom actions for your app. The Behavior tab in the AppSheet editor let's you set up custom buttons and actions that can be used in a wide variety of ways. These can be set by clicking on New Action. Here you can set the action name and specify the type of action to occur and the action item. The Workflow and Reports tabs let you set up automation such as sending emails or SMS texts when data is added or updated. Workflow and Reports are very similar with one key difference. Workflows are automations that are triggered when certain actions occur and Reports are automations that run on periodic schedules. Finally, if you want users to be able to use your app when it is not connected to the Internet, you can enable offline use in the Offline/Sync section. Note that with the launch of AppSheet automation, the Behavior, Workflow, and Reports features are being replaced by automation events and processes. Actions and automation are discussed in other courses in this AppSheet course series.

### Video - [Testing your app](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526889)

- [YouTube: Testing your app](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-V4NGJ6cfvQ)

Let's now discuss how you can test your AppSheet app. The simplest and easiest way to test your app during development is to use the app preview in the AppSheet Editor. On the right hand side in the AppSheet UI, a live preview of your app is displayed. This is the simplest way to test your app in your browser. The preview in the editor sidebar shows what the latest version of your app will look like on a phone oriented vertically. To quickly test other form factors such as tablet, horizontal phone, or full screen browser mode, use the link above the editor preview. Of course, before deploying the app. You should also test it on your mobile devices by sending the install link to yourself or a subset of users. To enable user testing of your app, you must first share the app with other users. We discuss how you can share your app in the next video. Once your app is shared with other users, they can either download the AppSheet app on their device, or open your app in a web browser to test the app. Once you've incorporated any app feedback, you can officially deploy it, activating all the services in your app. We discuss app deployment and publishing in more detail in a later module of this course.

### Video - [Sharing your app](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526890)

- [YouTube: Sharing your app](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ntqi-ZLGFKw)

We now review the different ways that you can share your AppSheet app with other users. When you are ready to share you app in the AppSheet editor, click Manage, and then Share. You then need to decide whether to share it with anyone (public) or with a restricted audience. You can share your app with anyone by making it public only if the following statements are true: Access to your app does not need to be secure for any reason and your app does not access sensitive data. And you are not concerned about the number of active users accessing your app. You can also share your apps with a restricted audience to control who can use the app, and optionally view or edit the app definition in the app editor. In the Share App dialog, enable "Advanced" to view and modify a users role and assigned app version. After sharing the app, you can notify users by sending them a link. Click Copy sharing links to view a list of links that you can use. You can also send reminder emails to users who have not used your app by clicking the envelope next to the user's email address. You can share your app with individual users... or with users in a domain. Read the AppSheet documentation for more information on sharing your app. Congratulations on learning how to create your first app. From here, you can continue improving your app or start on your next idea. AppSheet provides numerous resources that you can use to learn how to leverage the platform to build your own tailored apps. Go to the AppSheet Help Center to access hundreds of help articles on various AppSheet features. Explore AppSheet's active community and engage with the other app creators on specific topics and questions.

### Video - [Lab: Creating a Basic App using AppSheet](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526891)

- [YouTube: Lab: Creating a Basic App using AppSheet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fa3gOhtzDMY)

Hansel: Welcome to the first lab in this course on AppSheet. In this lab, you create a simple app to manage business contact information using the AppSheet UI. You configure the app using data from a sheet on Google Drive and use the live app preview feature in AppSheet to modify the data displayed in the app. You also verified that the data changes made via the app are saved in the underlying data source, the sheet on Google Drive.

### Lab - [Creating a Basic App using AppSheet](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/labs/526892)

In this lab, you'll use AppSheet to create a basic application starting with data.

- [ ] [Creating a Basic App using AppSheet](../labs/Creating-a-Basic-App-using-AppSheet.md)

### Quiz - [Quiz 2](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/quizzes/526893)

### Video - [Module Review](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526894)

- [YouTube: Module Review](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lTZNtVli05M)

In this module, you learned how to get started with AppSheet by signing in with a cloud provider account from Google. You learned about the different ways to create an app using AppSheet and the steps involved in creating an app using a spreadsheet as its data source. We discussed how to connect a data source to your app in the AppSheet UI and explored how to navigate the AppSheet editor. You learned how to view the column structure of data sources, and about the various types of views that can be used in your app. You learned how to share your app, and completed a lab to create your first app and test the app using AppSheet's live app preview.

## Leveraging Data

Using data sources with your app.

### Video - [Module Overview](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526895)

- [YouTube: Module Overview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uaP8yf1XM_c)

Welcome to the module on leveraging data in your app with AppSheet. When you are designing an app, one of the first tasks is to determine what data sources are needed for your app to work. AppSheet supports many different types of data sources, including spreadsheets and databases. In this module, you will learn how to use, connect, and configure data sources and also define the data structure in your app. We will also demonstrate some of these AppSheet capabilities. You will complete a lab to configure data for your app using AppSheet. Finally, you will learn how to use more than one table in your app.

### Video - [Using data sources](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526896)

- [YouTube: Using data sources](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KiI4SfwK-Dg)

Person: Let's first discuss what data sources you can use and how you can connect and configure data sources for your app. Before we start, it is important to understand the different types of data sources that you can use in AppSheet. AppSheet supports various types of data sources. They can be grouped into three categories, spreadsheets that include Office 365, Excel, Google Sheets, databases that include MySQL, PostgreSQL, MariaDB, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, BigQuery, on-prem databases, AWS DynamoDB and Redshift. Other data or provider services like Google Drive, Google Calendar, Apigee, Smartsheet, Dropbox, Box, OData and Salesforce. After you create your data source, you need to connect your app to it. As we discussed in the previous module, you can connect AppSheet to your data in one of three ways. You can link a new data source from the my account section in the AppSheet UI or from the my apps page by making an app. If you are using Google Sheets, you can connect your data to AppSheet directly from your sheet by clicking extensions, AppSheet, create an app. Let's look at how you can add a new data source from the my account tab. To connect your app to a data source, use the my account tab in the AppSheet UI. From there, click new data source and select the type of data source to add to your app. Note that data from multiple sources, for example, Google Drive and Dropbox, can be used together in the same app. All data sources in your account are available when you add tables to your AppSheet app. You can use this section to configure additional data sources for your account. After you have added and connected your app to your data source, you then need to configure your app to tell it how to use that data source. To do this, navigate to the AppSheet editor's data tab and click new table. A table in AppSheet is a single data set. For example, it can be a single spreadsheet or a worksheet that is part of a workbook containing many worksheets. The get data from dialogue displays the data sources that were added and available for your app. It also lets you search for additional documents available in your provider account and add additional provider accounts that may contain other data sources. After selecting the location of your data source, for example, Google Drive, you then select the actual spreadsheet from your Drive folder to use with your app. AppSheet also allows you to decide whether the app user should be able to add rows to a table, update or delete existing rows or use the table as read-only via the app. For example, for an app that allows you to manage personal or professional contacts, you may allow the user to add new contacts, delete old contacts or update the details of existing contacts. After the table is added to your app, you can then configure the column structure and data validation and set other column types and properties for use in the app.

### Video - [Defining the data structure in your app](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526897)

- [YouTube: Defining the data structure in your app](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q0xdhpZM4y4)

Person: After you have created, connected and configured your app to use your data source, you then need to define the data structure in your app. AppSheet automatically infers your table column structure, including the name, type and other column attributes for use by the app. You should review the types and other settings of the columns that have been automatically set and change them if required based on your app's requirements. From the columns tab in the data section of the navigation bar, click the table name to see a list of columns that make up the table. Here, you can change the settings of the column properties. Name: This property is automatically populated from the name given to the column in your spreadsheet or table. It should match the column name in the spreadsheet or table. Type: This property determine the role of the column in the app and is based on the data that is stored in the column. You should change the default value of the column type to match the use of the columns data in the app. There are 35 different data types, and we expect this to grow. The choice of data type affects the behavior of this column in the app. For example, you might want a particular text column to be of type LongText or a particular image column to be a thumbnail. Some commonly used data types are Date or DateTime, which indicates that the value in the column is a Date or a DateTime time. Image, which indicates that the value in the column is an image. Enum, which allows the app user to select one value from the list of allowed values. EnumList which allows the app user to select zero or multiple values from the list of allowed values. Address, which is used to specify a postal or street address. Values of type address can be plotted on a map in the app. Using a complete address that includes the street, city, state, country and postal code values helps ensure that AppSheet geocodes it correctly. E-mail, which indicates that the value in the column is an e-mail address. Details on the various types of columns that can be used in AppSheet are documented at the link provided. In addition to name and type, you can also set the following column properties. Key: You must have a key column that uniquely identifies a row in the table. Its value must remain constant. The label property enables you to choose the most important columns in a table and indicates whether the column name is displayed in the app. One image column and one non-image column can have this setting. Formula: The formula property enables you to provide a calculation to be applied to the column data whenever the user changes a value in a form. The show property allows you to display or hide the column data in the app. The editable property lets you enable or disable the user from editing a column's value in the app. The require property enforces a rule that the column must have valid data in all rows of the table. You can also set additional column properties in the AppSheet editor. Initial value: To provide an initial value for new rows added to the table, set the initial value property. To display the column header in the app, set the display name property. To provide a description of the columns purpose or role, set the description property. To enable this column for indexing in app search results, check the search property. To enable bar code scanning in the app using the user's device camera, set the scan property. To enable near-field communication scanning of NFC tags using the user's device, set the NFC property. To provide personally identifiable information or PII data from being retained in system logs, set the PII property for the column that stores personal or sensitive data. The data section can initially feel a little overwhelming because many powerful features are available in it, but don't worry. As you create your views, you'll be able to adjust it as needed. Also, AppSheet provides a lot of resources and documentation to help you along the way. Occasionally, AppSheet will add virtual columns automatically to your table structure. Let's see what these are. Virtual columns are automatically added when a table is first added to the app or when the table structure is regenerated. A virtual column is a column that doesn't correspond to an actual column in the underlying spreadsheet or table. Instead, it is a column whose value is automatically computed via an app formula expression. Their values are not actually stored anywhere, so they won't show up in your spreadsheet. They do however affect your app's functionality, behaving much like an ordinary column. These columns are usually added as a convenience based on common use. Examples of automatically added virtual columns are row number, which computes a unique number for each row, computed name, which concatenates a first name and a last name column. A common use case for virtual columns is to combine other columns in the app. For example, you can combine first name and last name columns to construct a virtual full name column for display in the app. To implement this, use the app formula concatenate first name comma last name. You can also use virtual columns to construct complex conditions using app formulas that operate on real columns in your table. Let's review how you can display images or videos in your app. To display images in your app, set the data type of your columns that contain the image or thumbnail to the image or thumbnail column type. You can do this from the columns tab under the data section of the navigation menu in the AppSheet editor. To display videos, set the column type as video. The values in your table for these columns can contain the name of a file that contains the image or video or a publicly accessible URL to the image or video. Let's discuss how images are stored and used by apps in AppSheet. As previously mentioned, to use images in your app, you use the image column type in your data source. The actual value that is stored in a column of this type is either a URL or a file name or path to the location of the image. If you store the value as a URL, make sure the URL is publicly accessible. In the examples shown, the photo column of the sheet contains the URL to an image for some rows in the table. If you store the value as a file name, the image must be stored in your cloud file system and not on your own computer. If you specify an image file name in your spreadsheet, the file should be in the same folder location as your spreadsheet. For example, if you use Google Drive and your spreadsheet is in the AppSheet data customer contacts folder, and if you have the image myname.jpeg in the same folder, you can just use the value myname.jpeg in the appropriate column in the spreadsheet. It is sometimes easier to organize images in their own folder. For that reason, image file names can be specified relative to the location of the spreadsheet. For example, if your image files are in a subfolder called images, the cell value in the image column of your spreadsheet must contain the relative path to the image file that includes the name of the folder, in this case images, followed by a slash and the image file name. When changes are made to the column structure of the underlying data source, you must regenerate the column structure for your app. Let's review how this is done in the AppSheet editor. As you work with your table in the editor, you may need to make changes to your underlying table structure. You may decide to remove a column, add a column or rearrange your columns. With these changes made to the table structure, you may see an error in the app when it syncs with the data source. To fix this issue, you have to regenerate the column structure for your app. From the columns tab under the data section of the navigation menu, select the table whose underlying data structure was modified. Then click regenerate structure. After you confirm, the new column structure is loaded in the editor, and the app emulator syncs with this new structure to resolve the error.

### Video - [Using more than one table in your app](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526898)

- [YouTube: Using more than one table in your app](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uNTtfs3XT8E)

Person: As we've discussed earlier, an app can use more than one table. To add another table to your app, simply click on new table, in the table's tab, under the data section of the navigating menu. You then can figure the table columns as described in the previous lesson. Note that you need to modify the default view or create a new UX view pointing to the new table, to get that's table's data to display in the app. Let's now learn about references between tables, when to create them and how to use them to add more meaningful functionality to your app. When an app uses multiple tables, it's often useful to create connections known as references between the app's tables. For example, an order capture app might contain the following tables. Orders with one row per order, order details with one row per line item in the order and customers with one row per customer, that contains details of the customer. Each order's row will reference a row in the customer's table of the customer who placed that order. Each order detail's row will reference it's parent order's row. References serve multiple purposes. They allow you to represent relationships. For example, the reference between the order's row and the customer's row allows you to capture the relationship between an order and the customer who placed that order. They allow you to easily retrieve information from a related row in another table. In the same example, the reference between the order's row and the customer's row allow you to start from an individual order and retrieve information about the customer, like their shipping address from the related customer's row. They allow you to navigate from one row to another. For example, you might retrieve a particular order detail row, then navigate to the related order's row and then to the related customer row. They allow you to create dynamic drop-downs. When you create a form to add or update data in a table that uses a reference column to another table, the form can continue a drop-down that enables the app user to select a value from the reference table. The drop-down is dynamically populated from the reference table column. They allow you to show related lists of items. Reference columns can be used to display the related list of items that are present in the other table. For example, with the order's table referencing the customer's table, a row from the customer's table, who's data is displayed in the app, can also display the list of related orders from the order's table that have been placed by this customer. To create a reference, you add a column of type ref to a table and specify the name of the source or related table that this column refers to. For example, in the order's table you would add a column of type ref that referred to the customer name column in the customer's table. A ref column always shows the key column value of the reference row in the other table. For example, if the key column value of a customer's row is Ann Adams, the ref field, in the related row in the order's table, will contain the value Ann Adams. The table's key column value uniquely identifies each row in that table. The copy of the key column value, in the ref column, allows the system to unambiguously retrieve the correct row in the reference table. App sheet automatically infers and adds references when you use related tables in your app or regenerate a table that is used by your app. For example, if you have a customer's table with a name column as its key, and if the order's table has a column called customer name, the customer name column in the order's table is presumed to be a ref column that refers to the name column in the customer's table. Whenever a ref column is created, either by the system or by you, the app creator, app sheet automatically creates a reverse reference, virtual list column in the reference table. For example, when you add the ref column to the order's table, that refers to the customer's table, the system automatically adds a reverse reference column to the customer's table, that references the customer's orders in the order's table. Note that this reverse reference column is virtual and will not exist in the underlying sheet or table. A reverse reference enables the app to navigate from one row of a table to all of its related rows. Easily display a row of a table, along with all of its related rows, in another table. Compute aggregates, like the count of a customer's orders or the total dollar value of a customer's orders. The system-added reverse reference column is a list of the key column values of the related rows. For example, the reverse reference column in the customer's table, for customer Ann Adams, would contain a list of the order IDs that exist in the related order's table for this customer.

### Video - [Demo](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526899)

- [YouTube: Demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ll123YK2AfE)

Hansel: Let's view a short demo on using data sources with your app. Apps need data to function. In this demo, you will learn how to use data sources with your app by using the AppSheet editor in the UI. To view the demo, use the link provided on your learning platform.

### Video - [Lab: Configuring Data for your App using AppSheet](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526900)

- [YouTube: Lab: Configuring Data for your App using AppSheet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s_K8cXIdlBw)

Let's practice what we learned in this module by doing a lab. The goal of this lab is to connect and configure data from multiple data sources for your app by using AppSheet. In this lab, you'll use AppSheet to enhance a basic application with additional functionality using data from a second data source. Using the AppSheet editor, you configure the type of data used in the app and create a relationship between the data sources or tables to provide additional functionality in your app.

### Lab - [Configuring Data for your App using AppSheet](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/labs/526901)

In this lab, you'll use AppSheet to connect and configure data for your app.

- [ ] [Configuring Data for your App using AppSheet](../labs/Configuring-Data-for-your-App-using-AppSheet.md)

### Quiz - [Quiz 3](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/quizzes/526902)

### Video - [Module Review](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526903)

- [YouTube: Module Review](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8sajFFAKBAY)

Hansel: When you're designing an app, determining what data sources are needed is one of the most important things to consider. In this module, we reviewed the different types of AppSheet supported data sources that can be used in your app. You learned how to connect and configure the data sources used in your app and how to define the column data structure. You also learned how to use more than one table in your app and how to create references between those tables to add functionality to your app.

## Defining the User Experience of Your App

Using the AppSheet editor define the user experience of the app.

### Video - [Module Overview](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526904)

- [YouTube: Module Overview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgCrhPjKzSA)

Creating a great user experience for your app users is a vital element of your app creation process. Users must be able to interact with your data easily and get what they need from your app. Welcome to the module on defining the user experience of your app. In this module, you will learn about AppSheet views and how to use the AppSheet editor to construct the UI for your app. We also discuss how to customize the user experience of your app using AppSheet’s branding, data formatting, and localization options. We will demo some of the features of AppSheet views, and you will complete a lab to implement the user experience of your app. Let’s get started!

### Video - [Introduction to AppSheet Views](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526905)

- [YouTube: Introduction to AppSheet Views](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wEArhh1NtWw)

Hansel: When making design decisions for your app, you can choose several different ways of displaying your data. Different views enable you to do this. Views are created by using data from entire tables or from a subset of table rows and columns. You can also use form views to capture information in the app. You can use the AppSheet editor view function to control how your data is presented to the users of your app. You create and manage views from the views tab under the UX section of the navigation menu in the AppSheet editor. The views tab displays the app's current list of views. To create a new view for the app, click new view. The new view form enables you to define the view. Here, you give the view a unique name, select the table whose table will be used by the view, the type of view, its position from where the user accesses it in the app and other view options. There are currently 11 different types of views in AppSheet. Each view type has its own characteristics and view options. Let's review the various types of AppSheet views. Let's start by exploring the calendar view. The calendar view enables you to display data associated with dates and times in day, week or month formats. You can display the calendar as a singular view or as part of a dashboard view. AppSheet currently supports integration with Google Calendar which you can use as a data source for this view. The deck and table views summarize the data as a scrollable list of rows. The deck view displays information about each row in a deck-of-cards format that includes an image. The deck view also has an option to select a layer of data to display as a secondary view. This nested view provides a way to visualize lists of related data created by building references between tables. To display tabular data from a spreadsheet or other data source, use the table view. This type of view displays information in a very compact manner and enables the user to scroll through the data easily to find the given row. Gallery is the default view of data that has an image or thumbnail image column. For tables with an image or thumbnail image column, the gallery view displays content in a summary format as an image gallery in the app. In the summary format, you can control the size of the images displayed in the app. Small and tiny are appropriate for thumbnail images. Medium fits two images side by side on a phone screen. Large shows large images full width with a vertical scroll. To display details about a specific row in a table, use the detail view. This view is used to show details about a table row a single record at a time and is automatically used when an item is selected in the table, deck and gallery views. The details view enables the user to page left and right through multiple rows. From the details view in the app preview, you can click the left or right arrows to move to adjacent rows in the table. On their device, users can also swipe left or right for similar behavior. You use the map view to display an address, X-Y position or latitude-longitude data on a map in your app. Address and lat-long data can be displayed on a Google Map in your app. Addresses are automatically geocoded, and if the Google Maps API is used with the app, the geocoding position is enhanced. Lat-long data is represented as comma-separated decimal values, for example 44.2456, -122.3348. The X-Y column type represents a position as point coordinates within an image that you provide. When a map view is configured with an X-Y type map column, it will display the image in place of the usual map. For address data, always specify the complete address including the city, state if any and country. This makes it easier for Google Maps to locate the address. Each location is displayed as a map pin in the view in the app. For performance reasons, only a limited number of pins can be displayed at the same time. The chart view enables you to present the app's data by plotting it on lines, bars, histograms and other chart shapes. When designing a chart view, you have to decide what values should be included on the X and Y axes of the chart. How many individual series are required to be drawn on the chart, what type of plot to use: line, bar, pie, et cetera? To choose the type of plot, you typically pick from row series. This type of plot is appropriate for spreadsheet data where most data is numeric. You choose a subset of the table columns that will be charted on the x-axis. The y-axis is based on the numeric values in the row cells. The example shows a row series chart using the current inventory column of a table that contains information on products. The x-axis displays the name of the column, current inventory, and the y-axis displays numeric values based on the cell values in this column for the rows in the table. Column series, this type of plot is appropriate for spreadsheet data with rows corresponding to items to compare. Every chart column forms a series that is identified by the column name. Each row using its key column forms one entry on the x-axis. The y-axis value is based on the numeric values in the row's cells. The example shows a column series chart that plots the same current inventory data shown earlier. In this case, the x-axis displays the product name value from the rows in the table, and the y-axis displays values based on the value in the current inventory column. Histogram, this is a special kind of bar chart to show aggregate distributions. The x-axis gets one entry for each unique value in a column, and the y-axis shows the count or an aggregate function of row values in that column. The example shows a histogram plot of the count of products or rows that belong in certain product categories which are the unique values of the product category column in a table. A form allows you to capture information from users of your app. AppSheet automatically generates forms for the tables that have been added to your app. Using these forms, the end user can add and edit rows in the corresponding tables via the app. New forms can also be created, and the order of each form field can be customized. The dashboard view allows you to show multiple views in one place in the app. On a tablet or desktop, a dashboard is shown in an automatically sized grid that can be customized by the app user. When the screen size of the device is narrow like on a phone or small tablet, you can enable dashboard tabs in the view options when configuring the view. If the view content is related to or from the same table as data in other views, enabling interactive mode allows content to be dynamically updated as different entries are selected. An onboarding view is a special view that is dedicated to onboarding new users of your app. It works like any other type of AppSheet view. You can use the onboarding view to present multiple pages of information that the app user can swipe through. The onboarding view is backed by a table that has columns for the image, title and two short descriptions. The values from those columns are displayed in the view as shown in the live app preview. Each row in the table represents a page in the view. The card view is a new way to visualize data more easily via cards that dynamically fill the device screen and enable users to quickly view details and initiate related actions. The card view also includes an intuitive layout method to customize each field that is displayed on the card.

### Video - [Using Views in AppSheet](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526906)

- [YouTube: Using Views in AppSheet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ejOXb9lge-k)

- Now that we've discussed the various types of views that are available in AppSheet, let's see how they are used when creating the user interface for your app. When an app is generated, AppSheet automatically creates appropriate views based on the data tables configured for your app. To create or modify views for your app, navigate to the views tab under the UX section of the navigation menu in the AppSheet editor. The main panel in the views tab shows the app's existing views and includes buttons to create additional views for your app. The views listed on this tab are primary views and system views. There are many properties that you set when you create or update a view. Some properties are required and others are optional. Each view needs a unique view name. To set this, use the view name property. A view is attached to a single table or slice in the app. Only data from the attached table or slice can be displayed in the view. To set the data for the view, use the "for this data" property to select one of the tables configured in your app. The view's position determine where the view can be accessed from in the app. Positions include spots in the navigation bar at the bottom of the screen, left, center and right in the apps main menu or implicit references while the user navigates through data in the app. To set the position of the view in the app, use the position property. Each type of view has type specific view options that allow you to tailor the appearance of the view. All view types have configurable display options. Display options affect how the view is presented in the apps main menu and in the navigation bar along the bottom of the app display. Display options include the following properties: A display name that allows you to set the text used to refer to the view. If not set, the view name is used. You can also set an expression that evaluates to text to set the views display name, an icon that is displayed along with the views display name. You can choose an icon from the list available in the app editor. Custom icons are not currently possible. Every view must have an icon. If none is selected, a type-specific default will be used. "Show if" is a yes-no expression that if provided determine whether the view is included as a navigation element in its designated position. If the expression evaluates to true, the view will be included. Each view type also has type-specific behavior options that allow you to tailor the behavior of the view when the user interacts with it. Primary views are accessed via the bottom bar of the app and are used most often. You use these views to create and lay out the user interface of your app. They are frequently used views that are accessed from the bottom navigation bar in the app. AppSheet automatically generates primary views based on the tables that are connected to your app. The UI that AppSheet creates for your app using these views is essentially CRUD-based. That is, the UI supports navigation for create, read, update and delete operations on data used by the app. By clicking on the view in the AppSheet editor, you can set the views name, the data table that backs the view, the view type, position, view options and other configuration options. System views are automatically generated views for your app. You can configure these views by expanding the system views section of the editor and clicking on each view. System views include menu views. These views are accessed from the top-left menu in the app and generally include views that are only used occasionally by the app user. Reference views: A reference view is a view that is only used when drilling down into your data. When an app user selects or edits a row from a table view, they are not taken to any of the top-level views that appear in either the menu or the buttons at the bottom of your app. Instead, the user is taken to a ref view. A ref view is a view that is only used when drilling down into data, editing or adding data or displaying a row via a ref column. The system automatically generates reference views for each of the tables in the app. In the example shown, the customer details table has a customer details detail view of type detail. Because the table allows additions and updates, there is also a customer details form view of type form. You can modify the system-generated views to easily change the look and feel of the app. You can also explicitly define ref views by creating a new view and setting its position to ref. Any user-defined ref view takes precedence over a corresponding system-defined ref view.

### Video - [Customizing the UX of your app](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526907)

- [YouTube: Customizing the UX of your app](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5w_--2SgptI)

Person: The AppSheet editor has tools that you can use to create a great user experience. You can use the AppSheet editor's UX tabs to customize the look and feel of your app. You can customize the branding of your app, set localization options based on the locale of your app's user and set different format rules and options for the data used by the app. All of these elements help create a professional look and feel for your app. In this lesson, we discuss how you can configure the appearance of your app, control how data is displayed in your app, tailor the app user's experience and customize the app system text, including the about page. Let's explore how to configure the appearance of your app. You configure the appearance of your app from the brand tab under the UX section in the AppSheet editor. You can set your app's color theme and primary color. The color theme represents the color palette used in the app. Themes control the appearance of the header, footer, text and icons in your app. You can choose from light and dark themes. To change the colors used for the visual elements in the app, select one of the primary colors in the palette or click on customer to select a customer color. The app logo is the icon that your users will click to launch your app from the device's home screen. Consider using an icon that reflects your business or brand. You can select a logo from the app repository or add your own using custom. You can also choose to include or exclude items like the logo and search button in the app's header and footer. The launch image is shown when the application is initially launched and when sync is in progress. The background image forms a backdrop for all pages in the app. To change the launch or background images for your app, select one from the list provided. You can also use a custom image by providing a publicly accessible URL or file location that is publicly accessible. Try different background images to find one that is aesthetically pleasing. Note that if your application data contains images, a background image can be distracting. It's also a good idea to keep your images in the same folder as your app spreadsheet. You can also change the color style of the header and footer to use the default black and white colors or use the primary color setting in the fully colored or accented fashion for the footer. Let's review how you can control the display of data in your app. You can customize how data is displayed in your app using icons and text from the format rules tab under the UX section of the navigation menu. To implement this, you create format rules for the data tables used by your app. To create a format rule, you specify the name of the format rule, the data table to which this rule applies, an optional condition that must be satisfied for the format rule to take effect. For example, you can apply the rule to any row in the table that has a matching value in a certain column of the table, a list of table columns to which the rule is applied, a set of visual and textual format settings that include an icon to show alongside the rows of data that match the rule condition, text and highlight color, font size and text attributes like bold, italic, et cetera. You can also tailor the experience that your users will have in using your app. The options tab under the UX section of the navigation menu provides additional options to tailor the app's user experience. The options on this tab apply to the entire app. The starting view option identifies the view that the user sees when the app is launched after installation. If the start with about option is enabled, the app's about page is displayed when the app is launched. The show name and e-mail in the side menu option allows you to display the app's user's name and e-mail address in the main menu in the app, if the app requires sign-in. You can select various other options in this tab, like disabling app sharing, setting form styles that control how user input forms are displayed and image upload sizes, to name a few. You can also set default settings for some of the view types used in your app. In this section, we'll review how to change system buttons and notifications when viewed in the app. The localized tab under the UX section of the navigation menu enables you to change the text shown in system buttons and notifications. Note that because most apps target users with specific language and localization preferences, this simple implementation is usually sufficient to address many of the app's localization requirements. If however an app needs to work with different languages simultaneously, this solution may not be adequate. You can configure locale support, including locale currency, using the AppSheet supported cloud provider's locale settings. You can learn more about this topic at the link provided. Let's now see how you can customize the app's about page. Every app should have a page that describes the application. This is usually called the about page. To customize the about page, navigate to the properties tab under info in the navigation menu in the AppSheet UI. Under the app properties section, you can specify various properties of the app that include a unique short name or handle for the app, the version of the app, a short one-line description of the app. Under the information for app users section, you can specify user guidance, a how-to information for users of the app, an about URL to a website that provides more information about the app, the app's privacy policy and the terms and conditions for users of the app. The about page is accessed from the main menu in the app. As discussed in the previous section, you can configure the app to launch this page as the initial page when the user first launches the app on their device.

### Video - [Demo](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526908)

- [YouTube: Demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZnKmYn4C6tk)

Hansel: Creating a great user experience for your app users is a vital element of your app creation process. Users need to be able to interact with their data easily and get what they need from your app. This demo explores how you can define the user experience of your app so users have the best experience when interacting with your app. AppSheet enables you to create user interfaces to the app's data using views. There are currently 11 different types of views that you can use in your app. Let's explore some of these views using a sample app in this demo. Here is an inventory management app that uses various views to display data to the app user. You manage views in the UX section of the AppSheet editor using the views tab. Let's first briefly look at the primary tables used by this app. These tables are the product categories and products tables that have already been added to the app for this demo. Here is the sheet that contains the data used by the app. The product categories table contains the category name and image for the category and other information about a category. Let's create a view in the app to display the categories to the app user. To create a view, click new view in the views tab in the AppSheet editor. We name the view categories. Data for this view comes from the product categories table that is connected to the app. To set the table for review, we use the "For this data" drop-down and select the correct table. Note that the table must be previously added to the app as a data source using the data section in the AppSheet editor. Also note that the AppSheet editor selects a default view type for this view which is deck. The deck view arranges the data in a set of cards. Let's change the view type to gallery. The gallery view displays content in a summary format as an image gallery in the app. We leave the default position of the button to access this view as left. Views such as the categories view are considered primary views as they are most frequently accessed by the app user from the app's bottom navigation bar. Let's add a second primary view to the app to display data from the products sheet. This sheet contains information about all of the products that are managed by this inventory management tab. As before, we click new view to create a new view. Name the view Products. The AppSheet editor preselects the products data table, the deck view type and the position for this view which we will leave as defaults. Let's save our changes to the app. Along with the products data, we also have data on the suppliers of those products. Information about suppliers include the ID name, first and last name of the supplier contact along with their e-mail and phone. Let's create a view to display this information in a table format. As before, we click new view and fill in the view name, the table that contains the supplier data and the view type of table. Since this view is not expected to be used that often, we will position it for access from the app's main menu. We leave the other default view settings as is and click save. To access the suppliers view, we click the main menu icon in the app preview. The new suppliers menu item has been added. Clicking suppliers on the main menu displays the content from the suppliers sheet in a tabular format. Clicking on an individual supplier displays the supplier's detail view that shows detail about each supplier. Now let's create another view to plot a chart that contains the current inventory of the products in the products table. Click new view to create a new view called product inventory. We use the data from the products table and set the type of view to chart. For position, we select ref. This view will not be directly accessed in the app by the user but will later be referenced from another dashboard view which we will create later. For chart views, we need to select the type of chart to display in the view. AppSheet supports different types of charts. For this demo, we use a column series chart. Since we'd like to plot product inventory in this chart, for the chart columns, add the current inventory column from the products table. Also enable the show legend option and click save. As you can see, this option is automatically enabled. The app preview now displays the chart with the product inventory plotted. Let's create a second reference view to display products that have low inventory levels. We'll name this view Low Inventory and use a preselected slice of the products data. A slice is a subset of the rows, columns and actions of a table. We set the position of the view to be ref since this view will be referenced from another dashboard view that we will create later. For this view, we will set a few view options. Let's add a sort by column to sort the data that is presented in this view in descending order of the lead time column. This way, products with a longer lead time are listed first. Next, we set the primary header to display the product name, the secondary header to display the product category and the summary column to display the lead time. Finally in the display section, we set an exclamation icon for this view and click save to save our changes to the app. You can find the exclamation icon by searching in the search bar of the display section under view options. Let's save our changes. In order to display the reference views previously created, we now create a view of type dashboard. We'll name the view Inventory Dash and select the dashboard view type. Dashboard views are used to display other views inside the dashboard view. This view will be accessed from the main menu of the app, so for position, we select menu. Next, we add the two ref views that were previously created since both those views display inventory-related information. First, select the product inventory view and then the low inventory view. Enable the option to display the views in tabs in the app and save the changes. Let's now preview the new view in the app. Access the inventory dash from the main menu. The product inventory chart is displayed in the first tab, and the low inventory data is displayed in the second tab. Let's finally customize the look and feel of the app. In the brand tab, you can change the theme, colors, logo and other aspects of your app. Selecting one of the primary colors, you can preview the changes in the app. Note that the icons in the bottom navigation bar have changed color to reflect what we have selected as the primary color. System buttons and icons also display and use the same color. For the app logo, let's select a different icon. Click the main menu to view the new app logo in preview. You can implement format rules to control how data is displayed in the app. Let's add a new format rule to change the text color of the product name and product category whenever the inventory for that product drops below a minimum value. In the format rules section, we can add a new format rule to do this. We'll name the rule Low Inventory and select the products table as the data source to be used for this rule. The rule condition uses the current inventory and minimum acceptable inventory columns from the products table. Clicking into the rule condition brings up the Expression Assistant. In the columns tab, we select the current inventory column first. Then type in the less than operator followed by the minimum acceptable inventory column to form the conditional expression. And we save the rule condition. Next, we identify the columns of the products table that this rule should be applied to. This case, we will select the product name and product category columns. Let's also add some visual cues when this format rule is triggered. We'll add an exclamation icon when these column values are displayed. And finally, let's change the text color of these column values to red and enable the bold option to format the text. Finally, we save all our changes to the app. To test these changes, navigate to the inventory dash view from the main menu and select the low inventory tab. As you can see, all the product data displayed in this view are now marked in red text with the exclamation icon, indicating that the product is low on inventory. This concludes the demo on defining the user experience of your app. There are more view types and additional customization you can add to your app based on your requirements that are well documented on the AppSheet website. Thanks for watching.

### Video - [Lab: Implementing the User Experience for your App 
using AppSheet](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526909)

- [YouTube: Lab: Implementing the User Experience for your App 
using AppSheet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xuI2fiyZx9Q)

Hansel: Let's now do a lab to implement the user experience for our customer contact's app. In this lab, you implement the user experience for your app using various UX components that are available in AppSheet. You learn how to use views to display images in your app. You will also learn how to use a map view, to plot addresses on a map and use the form view to collect user input and save that information to a sheet on Google Drive. Finally, you will customize the look and feel of your app.

### Lab - [Implementing the User Experience for your App using AppSheet](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/labs/526910)

In this lab, you'll use AppSheet to implement the UX components in your app.

- [ ] [Implementing the User Experience for your App using AppSheet](../labs/Implementing-the-User-Experience-for-your-App-using-AppSheet.md)

### Quiz - [Quiz 4](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/quizzes/526911)

### Video - [Module Review](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526912)

- [YouTube: Module Review](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vd-QKGUNbBA)

Hansel: Thank you for completing this module on defining the user experience of your app. In this module, you learned about AppSheet Views and how the AppSheet editor is used to implement the user experience of your app. We also discussed how to use AppSheet's branding, data formatting and localization options to create a customized view of the app and its data, as seen by the end user. You also completed a lab to implement the user experience of your app, using AppSheet.

## Publishing Your App

Describe the app publication process.

### Video - [Module Overview](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526913)

- [YouTube: Module Overview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aonGd7u14ME)

Publishing your app is an exciting step in the process of app creation. In this module, we discuss the process of publishing your app so that end users have access and can install and run the app on their devices. We discuss both an instant method of deployment and the traditional method of deploying your app to an app store. We also discuss how you can share the app with your users.

### Video - [App deployment process](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526914)

- [YouTube: App deployment process](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O4ayh1SFiYs)

There are a few steps involved in deploying and publishing your app: First, run a deployment check to look for any errors or warnings reported for your app. Fix all reported errors and resolve any warnings. Then, deploy the app. And finally test the app as an end user. Let's review these steps in detail. Note that we'll discuss the steps to deploy and test the app in subsequent lessons in this module. Before you publish your app, you need to make sure that everything is ready to go. From the Deploy tab under the Manage section of the navigation menu of the AppSheet editor, you can run a check to see what, if anything, you need to change in your app before publishing it. To run a check, click on Deployment Check to see the stage of your app's deployment. The app is in the prototype stage if it is not deployed. Click on Run deployment check to run the deployment check. You should fix any reported errors and resolve any warnings before publishing your app. The output of the deployment check contains the status of various aspects of your app. Any aspect with a state of Warning or Error should be further investigated and resolved. To determine the cause of the warning or error, click on the relevant panel to view a warning or error message. To view more information about the warning or error, click More info. More information about the warning or error is displayed in a separate browser tab. Here, you can determine the meaning of the warning or error, the likely cause, and steps you can take to resolve the issue. You can also read documentation related to the issue by clicking the "Learn More" link that is provided. After you fixed any issues, you should rerun the deployment check. If no more issues are reported, you can move the app to the deployed state. When you deploy your app, AppSheet changes the state to Deployed. You have the option to return it to its prototype state if further changes to the app are required. You can also un-deploy your app. If you want to un-deploy and permanently remove an app, you can simply delete it. The next time any existing users sync the app, it will no longer run. To delete an app, navigate to the MyApps page in the AppSheet UI. Select the 3-dots menu for the app to be deleted, and click Delete. After sharing an app with users, to modify or remove their shared access, open your app in the app editor. Then, click the Share Icon. In the Share app dialog box, perform one of the following tasks: Modify app permissions for individual users. Or remove access for an individual user or domain by selecting Remove from the list of app permissions. Then, click Done. To deploy your app and make it available to end users, you typically use one of the AppSheet supported methods of deployment. These methods are called: instant deployment and traditional deployment. We'll explain how these methods of deployment work in the next lesson. Testing your app before making it available to end users is an obvious step in the publishing process. The easiest way to test your app is through the App Gallery (which itself is an app created by AppSheet). We'll review the testing process in a subsequent lesson in this module.

### Video - [Deployment methods](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526915)

- [YouTube: Deployment methods](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WBnR-c2Zmrc)

Let's now discuss the app deployment methods that are supported by AppSheet. There are a couple of different ways to deploy and publish your app: instant deployment and traditional deployment. If you're building an app for your team or employees, it's easiest to use instant deployment. With instant deployment, apps that you build are "hosted" by the AppSheet Hosting app installed on your mobile device. When you deploy and run your app, it will appear to run on its own, but it's actually hosted by the AppSheet Hosting app. This is similar to a web page that is hosted in a web browser. Publishing an AppSheet app using instant deployment is as simple as clicking a link in an email and following a few simple instructions. Select Copy sharing links... and then send your users the app install link by email. When a user clicks the install link on their mobile device, the user is first asked to install the AppSheet Hosting app on their device. They'll be taken to the iTunes store for iOS or the Google Play Store for Android. If the AppSheet hosting app is already present on the device, this step is skipped. The app icon for the AppSheet app is then added to their home screen. Clicking on the app icon launches the AppSheet app. The benefits of instant deployment are that it's easy and simple to implement and use. And the end user automatically benefits from any new features, bug fixes and performance improvements made to the app in AppSheet. In the traditional app deployment method, you submit the app separately to an app store (iTunes store for iOS and Google Play Store for Android). Your users then find and download the app from the app store. You should consider this model if: The app store discovery and distribution model is important to you. And you are aiming for large scale consumer adoption of your app. You should first test your app using instant deployment before following the traditional deployment process to publish your app. The traditional deployment process involves these steps: First, create the package or "white-label" version of your app. You can do this from the Deploy tab under the Manage section of the navigation menu in the AppSheet editor. Second, submit the app package to the appropriate app store. And third, go through the approval process mandated by the Google Play Store or iTunes App Store. White Labeling your apps enables you to create standalone native versions of your AppSheet app for Android and iOS so your apps can be distributed as a direct download from the Android or iOS app stores without the need to download the AppSheet hosting app. You can white label your app from the Deploy tab under the Manage section of the navigation menu in the AppSheet UI. Whether or not you make use of this deployment path, you can also enable the white label option in order to remove AppSheet branding and better establish your own brand within the app.

### Video - [Testing your app](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526916)

- [YouTube: Testing your app](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VvGDbihg9OQ)

Person: Let's now review how you can test your app. It's a good idea to test your app on your own device before sharing it with your users. The easiest way to test your app on a device is to first install the AppSheet hosting app on your device. You can find the AppSheet hosting app by searching for AppSheet in the iTunes store for iOS devices or Google Play Store for Android devices. When you launch the AppSheet hosting app, it asks you to sign in, after which it starts an app gallery, which itself is an app created by AppSheet. The app gallery lets you browse and run your own apps and apps that have been shared with you on your mobile device. To test the app on your device, tap and run it from the app gallery. Verify that the app functions as expected on your device. There are three primary views in the app gallery: Recent, which displays the apps most recently accessed by the user, sorted into categories of today, this week and earlier; shared with me, which displays apps that the user has been invited to use, either via direct e-mail invitation or via domain permission; and created by me, which displays apps the user has created. This view is only visible if the user has created an application.

### Video - [Sharing your app](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526917)

- [YouTube: Sharing your app](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sQqYQC_WA10)

Now that you've deployed and tested your app, it's time to share your app with your end users. To share your app by sending an email, open your app in the app editor. Click the Share icon in the title bar. In the Share app dialog, type the user's email address, and enable Advanced. Set the user's permissions and role (User or Admin), and click Done. You also have the option to send a reminder email to users to install the app. You can also include an invitational message in the email to let the user now that you're sharing the app. You can also send your users an app install link by email. The link is available from copy sharing links. When the app is created, you (the app creator) immediately receives an email with the installation link. You can distribute your app with this email by: Forwarding the email to other users or employees within your organization. Copying the link into an internal website to share, or even sending the link via an SMS message. Note that in order for users to use the installation link using any of these methods, make sure you share the app with them using the process described earlier. Finally, you can also choose to share your app using the in-app share button. All AppSheet apps have a share button that can be used to share details on how to install the app. The share button can be disabled with the Disable app sharing by users option from the Options tab under the UX section of the navigation menu of the app editor. Let's review how to install the app on an Android device using app shortcuts. On Android devices, users can install app shortcuts from AppSheet's app gallery without needing to use the installation link. To use this method, the app user should: Download the AppSheet hosting app from the app store. This app loads the app gallery app that contains all the users apps that they have access to. Open the gallery app and click into the app you want on the homescreen. Click the hamburger menu at the top and then click Add Shortcut. The current app's icon should then appear on the home screen. If you want your app users to use this method, make sure you've shared the app with them using the process described earlier.

### Video - [Lab: Publishing your App using AppSheet](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526918)

- [YouTube: Lab: Publishing your App using AppSheet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ObE8S2dLw5s)

Person: Let's now do a lab to publish your app. In this lab, you use AppSheet to deploy and publish your app so end users can access and use your app. You run a deployment check on your app to check for any errors or warnings. You then fix any errors and resolve any warnings that may be reported. You then deploy and publish your app using instant deployment. Finally, you test the app as an end user.

### Lab - [Publishing your App using AppSheet](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/labs/526919)

In this lab, you'll use AppSheet to publish your app.

- [ ] [Publishing your App using AppSheet](../labs/Publishing-your-App-using-AppSheet.md)

### Quiz - [Quiz 5](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/quizzes/526920)

### Video - [Module Review](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526921)

- [YouTube: Module Review](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wpIHpS0oULU)

Person: Congratulations on completing this model, on publishing your app using AppSheet. In this module, we discussed the process of publishing your apps so that end users can access and install the app on their devices. We discussed the instant-deployment method and the traditional-deployment method to deploy your app to an app store. We also discussed how you can share the app with end users. You also completed a lab to deploy and publish your app using AppSheet. In this lab, you learned how to run a deployment check on your app to check and fix any errors or warnings. You also deployed the app using instant deployment and tested the app as an end user.

## Course Review

Review the Building No-Code Apps with AppSheet: Foundations course.

### Video - [Course Review](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/video/526922)

- [YouTube: Course Review](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pZg8CfgnlFU)

Person: Thank you for taking this introductory course on Google Cloud's AppSheet no-code application development platform. Let's review what was discussed and how you can use the knowledge gained from this course. We will also provide you with a brief road map on future courses in this series that will help you further develop your skills to build and manage apps using Google Cloud's AppSheet. Congratulations on completing the course. With the knowledge gained from this course, you can now build a no-code app by signing into AppSheet using Google as a cloud provider. With access to Google Drive, you can add data sources like spreadsheets from Drive to your app. You learned to navigate the AppSheet UI and create your first app using the platform. You configured data sources for your app using sheets from Google drive and added functionality to your app by refining the data structure using the AppSheet editor. When multiple tables are related to each other, you can create relationships between them and further enhance the capabilities of your app. Using AppSheet views, you designed and created the user experience for your app. You also implemented app branding and learned how to format data as it is displayed in your app. Finally, you published your app by first running deployment checks and fixed any reported errors or warnings. You also learned how to test and share your app with end users. Now that you have completed the foundational training on building no-code apps with AppSheet, I encourage you to look out for our next course in this series on AppSheet. The next course in this series is on the implementation and management capabilities of AppSheet, where we will cover topics such as managing data, adding behaviors to apps, integrating with external providers and implementing security and management practices. This course will be available soon, so stay tuned. We will also be creating a third course in this series on implementing process automation using the AppSheet platform. In the meanwhile, we recommend browsing the AppSheet documentation on the appsheet.com website and join the community at community.appsheet.com. We've also added some useful reading recommendations as part of this course. Congratulations again on completing this course, and we wish you all the best on your learning journey with AppSheet.

## Course Resources

PDF links to all modules

### Document - [Course Resources](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/336/documents/526923)

## Your Next Steps

### Badge - [Course Badge](https://www.cloudskillsboost.googleNone)
