---
id: 449
name: 'Building No-Code Apps with AppSheet: Automation'
datePublished: 2023-09-04
topics:
- AppSheet
- Data Analysis
- Data Management
type: Course
url: https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449
---

# [Building No-Code Apps with AppSheet: Automation](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449)

**Description:**

This course helps you recognize the need to implement business process automation in your organization. You learn about automation patterns and use cases, and how to use AppSheet constructs to implement automation in your app. You learn about the various features of AppSheet automation, and integrate your app with Google Workspace products. You also learn how to send email, push notifications and text messages from your app, parse documents and generate reports with AppSheet automation.

**Objectives:**

- Define business process automation and recognize its use cases in an organization.
- Learn how AppSheet automation can automate business processes.
- Implement automation in your app with AppSheet automation constructs.

## Introduction

Introduction to the course.

### Video - [Course Introduction](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399570)

- [YouTube: Course Introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fi52kmdnpuM)

Manual tasks take away from your time that’s needed to produce high-impact work. AppSheet automation helps organizations quickly and easily automate tasks, ultimately saving you time. After you’ve implemented AppSheet, you can incorporate automation into your workflows. Learn how, in the Building No-Code Apps with AppSheet: Automation course. Hi I’m Hansel Miranda, a technical curriculum developer at Google Cloud, and I’m here to teach you about automation techniques and capabilities you can use for your apps. This course helps you recognize the need to implement business process automation in your organization. You’ll learn about automation patterns and use cases, and how to use AppSheet constructs to implement automation in your app. This is an intermediate level course designed for app creators who have implemented AppSheet capabilities and are ready to add automation to their app. Through a series of video lectures, lab exercises, and quizzes, you’ll learn how to build automation capabilities in your app with AppSheet automation, and learn how to use automation to integrate with Google Workspace products. Upon completion of the course, you’ll also be able to generate reports and parse documents with AppSheet automation. Let’s get started!

## Implementing Business Processes

Understand business process automation, recognize patterns and use cases, and learn about the capabilities and features of AppSheet automation.

### Video - [Introduction to business process automation](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399571)

- [YouTube: Introduction to business process automation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3jM3Ubqo6Bk)

Welcome to the module on implementing business process automation with AppSheet. In this module, we briefly discuss what business process automation is, and identify use cases for automating business processes within an organization. You will learn about the automation capabilities of AppSheet and how you can use them to automate business processes. We will also discuss common automation use cases and patterns for you to recognize when developing your apps, and view a demo. Finally, at the end of this module we will review what was discussed. What is business process automation? According to Gartner, business process automation, known as BPA, is defined as the automation of complex business processes and functions beyond conventional data manipulation and record-keeping activities, usually by using advanced technologies. Examples of business processes are: Product requisition and procurement Order fulfillment Employee onboarding. In an organization, many processes such as these can be automated. Consider automating business processes to remove or reduce manual work and improve process efficiency, eliminate human error, create standardized processes that include auditing and reporting, and support changing work cultures by mitigating risks to workforce supply and productivity. When deciding which business process to automate in your organization, consider these types: Processes that involve many repetitive tasks or user interactions Processes that involve multiple departments Processes that must be standardized and that have auditing and reporting requirements Processes that are time-sensitive. BPA tools support the digital transformation of an organization by implementing, automating, and monitoring business processes. AppSheet Automation is one such tool that leverages Google AI to automate business processes, and is part of Google Cloud's AppSheet no-code development platform.

### Video - [AppSheet automation overview](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399572)

- [YouTube: AppSheet automation overview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEo8rm5TqvY)

Let’s discuss the features and capabilities of AppSheet Automation. AppSheet Automation enables line-of-business workers who don’t have coding skills to automate their work and business processes in the organization. AppSheet Automation is part of AppSheet, Google Cloud’s no-code app development platform. With AppSheet Automation, organizations can: Eliminate busy work associated with manual repetitive tasks. Enable workers to focus on high-impact work. Reduce IT backlogs. Features of AppSheet Automation include... Integration with Google Workspace AppSheet Automation helps business users build workflows to customize and extend their Workspace environment, which can include Sheets, Drive, Chat, and Gmail. AppSheet adds more flexibility into Google Workspace by integrating with Gmail through dynamic email support. Gmail integration helps streamline review and approval processes in your AppSheet app. Google AI AppSheet Automation uses Document AI to automatically extract unstructured data from documents like receipts and invoices. Workforce collaboration AppSheet Automation enables workforce collaboration by supporting events generated in third-party data sources. You can configure automation bots that detect changes in data in Google Sheets and then trigger other processes like approvals in AppSheet. Modularity With AppSheet Automation, you create bots from reusable components: events, processes, and tasks. Seamless connectivity enables you to connect your app to external data sources without writing any code. Connect directly with APIs, data sources, and webhooks to sync your application data with external platforms. Let’s explore the key concepts of AppSheet Automation. A bot defines the automation that you want AppSheet to run. An event identifies the data change or schedule that triggers the bot. A process describes the set of steps that are performed when the bot is triggered. A step is part of a process. There are various types of steps that can: Run a task Run a data action Branch the process based on a condition Wait for a condition to be true Call a process and return values. Task A task defines a type of step in a process. AppSheet supports the following categories of tasks: Send an email Send a notification Send an SMS message Call a webhook Create a new file Call an Apps Script script We will use some of these types of tasks in later modules of this course. Document processing is a feature of AppSheet Automation that lets you automatically extract useful content from a document file that is stored in PDF, GIF, PNG, JPEG, or TIFF format. To access AppSheet Automation features, select Automation from the navigation menu in the AppSheet editor. We will discuss these features in more detail in the next module of this course.

### Video - [Patterns for automation](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399573)

- [YouTube: Patterns for automation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSWVSmdIr_M)

In this lesson, we discuss some patterns and use cases where you can use AppSheet’s automation capabilities. Here are a few patterns where automation can be applied in a business process: Notifications and information sharing Human in the loop, where a person is required to review and approve or reject a particular step outcome, before the process can continue. Data change Automation is frequently used to notify users and share information with them about events. Sometimes, users need to act when such events occur. For example, an app that collects customer feedback might need to notify a customer service team when negative feedback is received about a product or service. A customer service representative might then need to contact a customer regarding that feedback. The “human in the loop” pattern involves a process that includes some steps that can be automated and steps that a human must complete. For example, a process that generates project contracts might include a set of automated tasks and then an approval or authorization task performed by a human. Another example occurs in software development, where the continuous integration and deployment process (CI/CD) involves a series of automated tasks that perform testing and deployment of code. Human approval might be needed to perform the final deployment of the software to a production environment. Other examples of this pattern are: Expense approval Content or data access request authorization Employee onboarding review The data change pattern typically involves changes made to the data used in an application: the change triggers an automated workflow and possibly other data changes. For example, in an inventory management application, when the number of units of a specific product falls below a certain threshold, an automation workflow is triggered. The workflow then creates a supplier order for that product to replenish its inventory. Here are some use cases where these automation patterns can be employed in business operations. Consider a contract generation app for service projects: A field technician wants to create a service contract based on their review of the work required and an estimate of the time and cost involved. The technician uses an AppSheet app to create a contract record or row in a table. This event triggers an automation bot that executes a set of steps in a process: To ensure that the field technician has accurately estimated the time and effort required to complete the project, the first step checks whether the service fee is less than $100. If this condition is met, an email is sent to a supervisor for approval (this is an example of the notification and information sharing automation pattern.). The process then waits for the supervisor to review and approve this contract in the app. (This is an example of the human-in-the-loop automation pattern). After the contract is approved, the process continues with the next step. The contract document is generated. The contract document is then sent to the field technician and the customer for execution. In the same app, we want to capture customer feedback on the completed project and perform certain actions. Here’s an automation bot that accomplishes this. We use a feedback table to capture new customer feedback entries. When a new entry or record is received, a bot that executes these process steps is triggered: First, it checks the category of the feedback received. If the feedback is Good, the bot sends a notification chat that contains the positive feedback. If the feedback is not Good, the bot sends a notification chat that contains the negative feedback. Negative feedback might require a dedicated chat space staffed with personnel who perform follow-up actions with the customer. Finally, the bot process adds the feedback information to the customer record. This is an example of a data change automation pattern. In Appsheet, you can simplify business operations with automation by using data from Google Workspace products like Sheets and Docs. Consider a facility inspection operation that generates reports multiple times a day on the inspection status of various facilities in an office and emails that report to management. Let’s explore this use case where we implement this operation with AppSheet automation. This sheet contains inspection data for the app. Note the data structure used to manage inspections at various points in a given facility. Module 4_Course review We’ve created an inspection app with data from this Google Sheet that is stored on Drive. Let’s use the app to create a new inspection, and mark it as passed. Here is our inspection detail entry. Now, we want to send the information about this inspection to a manager for review and approval. Instead of manually doing this task, we can implement a bot in AppSheet to automatically send an email whenever a new inspection has passed. The bot is only triggered on a data change event on the Inspections table when a new inspection is created with a status of ‘Inspection Passed’. The bot executes a process that includes a step that runs a task. The type of task is Send an email, which sends an email to a list of recipients defined in the task. The task uses default content for the subject and body of the email. If necessary, you can also explicitly define the content of the email. We have now set up a bot that sends an email to a manager for review and approval each time an inspection has been marked as 'passed.' The manager can then access the app to approve the inspection. Ideally, the manager could review and approve the inspection directly through the email. To support this capability, AppSheet provides a feature called embedded app view email. Embedded app view email enables users to interact directly with your app in the email. Users would otherwise click a link to interact with the AppSheet app in a separate browser tab or window. To implement this capability, we configure the task that sends the email to use embedded app view email. Here, set the app’s detail view or form view that will be displayed in the email. Now, when an inspection that has passed is created through the app, the inspector’s manager receives an email that contains an app view. The manager can directly approve or reject this inspection entry within the email itself, without needing to open the app and complete this action. As we’ve seen in this example, implementing automation for your AppSheet app by using Google Workspace products and services is fairly simple. We will review embedded app view emails in more detail in a later module in this course. Another use case for automation is when an app user must be immediately notified of certain information that they must quickly act on. AppSheet supports the “Send a notification” type of task that you can use in a bot for your app. You specify who should receive the notification in the “To” field of the task definition. Optionally, you can customize the content of the notification. We discuss push notifications in more detail in the next module of this course.

### Video - [Demo: AppSheet Automation](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399574)

- [YouTube: Demo: AppSheet Automation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CHtt7EbF3sU)

Let's view a demo that explores a sample facilities inspection app. Welcome to a demo on app Sheet Automation. In this demo, we'll review the constructs that you create and use to implement automation in your app. We use a simple employee onboarding use case to send an email when a new employee record or role is created in that app.the app is used by human resource management to track and manage employee onboarding and training to access app sheets, automation features, sign into app sheet and click automation in the left navigation panel the automation page contains the bots, events, processes and tasks that you use to create the required automation objects or constructs. These objects are required to implement automation in your app app sheet lets you create these automation objects individually or intuitively by starting from a bot the bot's tab displays the current list of bots to create a new bot. Click new bot type the name of the bot app. sheet creates the bot and prompts you to configure the event that will trigger the bot to configure the event, click Configure Event Type a name for the event or select an existing event for this bot next, configure the event in the Settings panel on the right. The event will trigger the bot and can occur based on a data change or on a periodic schedule because we need to trigger the board when a new employee role is added in the app, we select data change for the event type to restrict the bot to trigger only when a new role is added to the table. Click adds only you can select other types of data changes for events based on your automation requirements. Select the table whose data gene is will cause the event to trigger the bot you can optionally provide a condition to trigger the event. Next, we create a process the process is executed by the bot. When the bot is triggered the process consists of a set of steps that are executed in sequence. To create a process, click create new process rename the process and click Add a step to create steps for the process. Type a name for the step and press. Enter steps can be of different types they can run a task, a data action branch on a condition. Wait for a condition to be true. Call another process or return values for this demo, we select one a task as the default step type and click create new task in the settings panel on the right into the task name app sheet supports sending push notifications as SMS messages as well as calling Webhooks creating files and calling app script from here. But for this demo we select to send an email task type for the email type select custom template app. sheet also supports Embedded App View or dynamic emails for G-mail clients. You now configured the email that is sent by the bot select the table whose data will be used by the task manager runs. Provide the email address of the recipients. You can enter multiple recipients by clicking. Add for email addresses that contain special characters like hyphens, enclose it in quote characters provide the subject and body of the email by default. The email body uses column variables to substitute the values from the employee role that is added in the app. We leave this as the default and click save to see what changes let's test the automation that we just created. Navigate to the app in the app editor preview add a new employee in the app provide values for the required fields and click save to save the changes in the app. Wait for the app to sync the data change with the app sheet back end can also click sync to manually sync the changes then navigate to the email client to verify that the bot was triggered and the email was received. As you can see an email with the subject new employee added that was configured in our tasks has been received. Click the email to verify its contents the email contains the data from the row that was added to the employee table. Back in the app sheet editor, you can review the event, process and task in the individual tabs the bot's tab displays the new board that was just created it contains the event, the process, and the steps of the process as well as the tasks that have been assigned to the process. Click on the events tab and select the event that was just created. The Events Tab will list all the events that are used by your bot. You can further customize or configure the event if required. The process TAB will lists all your processes that are used by the different bots in your app. The process that was just created for this demo is shown, yet it comprises of the new employee email task that was configured earlier. The Tasks Tab the lists, all the tasks that are used by processes in your app, like with the events and the processes, you can configure and further customize the tasks if required. This concludes this demo on apspheet automation. Thanks for watching.

### Quiz - [Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/quizzes/399575)

#### Quiz 1.

> [!important]
> **What are some patterns or use cases where you can use AppSheet's automation capabilities? Select three.**
>
> - [ ] Integrating with Google Voice
> - [ ] Data change
> - [ ] Notifications and information sharing
> - [ ] Human "in the loop"

#### Quiz 2.

> [!important]
> **What are the key components used to create automation in AppSheet? Select four.**
>
> - [ ] Bot
> - [ ] Process
> - [ ] Step
> - [ ] Report
> - [ ] Event
> - [ ] Workflow

#### Quiz 3.

> [!important]
> **What are some reasons to consider implementing automation in an organization? Select three.**
>
> - [ ] Eliminate app testing.
> - [ ] Eliminate human error.
> - [ ] Remove or minimize manual work.
> - [ ] Avoid project management.
> - [ ] Create standardization.

#### Quiz 4.

> [!important]
> **What are some types of steps available in AppSheet automation? Select four.**
>
> - [ ] Branch on a condition
> - [ ] Run a task
> - [ ] Wait
> - [ ] Find
> - [ ] Loop
> - [ ] Run a data action

### Video - [Module Review](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399576)

- [YouTube: Module Review](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pCM-L_21LXM)

Congratulations on completing this module on implementing business processes with AppSheet. Let’s do a quick review. In this module, we discussed business process automation, and the features and capabilities of AppSheet automation. We also identified patterns and use cases for automating business processes within an organization.

## AppSheet Automation

Implement AppSheet automation capabilities in your app.

### Video - [AppSheet automation](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399577)

- [YouTube: AppSheet automation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cFruy32xIqA)

Welcome to the module on process automation with AppSheet. In this module, you will learn about the automation capabilities of AppSheet and how you can use them to automate business processes. We discuss the various features of AppSheet Automation, how you can integrate with Apps Script and review automation monitoring. Let’s do a walkthrough of a sample use case to discuss how you can implement automation in your app. We use a sample employee onboarding app to implement and demonstrate AppSheet automation. When an app user creates a new employee record in the system, a confirmation email is sent to the Human Resources department of an organization. Let’s review how you can use AppSheet automation to send the email. AppSheet might suggest automation bots in the editor based on the types of columns in the tables that are used by your app. If you choose to use the bots, AppSheet automatically creates the necessary automation components. If they meet your requirements, you can modify and use the components in your app. In this walkthrough, you learn how to create and configure new automation components. To create a new task, in the Automation > Tasks tab, click New Task. Configure the task with the following settings: Select the Send an email task category. 2. Name the task. 3. Select the type of email. The custom template email type is the default which lets you configure emails with text, HTML, or variables from app data. 4. Select the table that the task will execute against. 5. Add the recipient’s email address. To add additional recipients, click Add and enter their email addresses. 6. To customize the content of the email, enter values for the Email Subject, Email Body, and other fields as needed. To save the changes to the app, click Save. Next, to run this task, create a process. From the Automation > Processes tab, click New Process. To configure the new process: Enter a process name. 2. Select the table for this process. Next, add steps to the process that are executed when the process runs: Click Add a step. 2. Enter a name for the step. 3. Click Create a custom step. 4. Select the Run a task step type. 5. Select the task that was created earlier. The selected task settings are displayed in the AppSheet editor on the right. 6. Click Save to save your changes to the app. Next, to trigger a bot that executes the process, we define an event in the app. When the app is used to add a row to the Employee table, this event should be triggered. To create and configure the event in the AppSheet editor, navigate to the Automation > Events tab, and click New Event. To configure the new event: Enter a name for the event. 2. For the event type, select Data Change. 3. Because we want the event to trigger a bot only when a new row is added to the table, select Adds only. 4. For Table, select Employee. The data changes made to this table will trigger the event. Leave the remaining settings as their defaults, then click Save. To connect the automation components, use a bot. To create a bot, navigate to the Automation > Bots tab, and click New Bot. To configure the bot: Enter a name for the bot. 2. Click Create a custom bot. 3. To configure the event that will trigger the bot, click Configure event. 4. Select the event that was created earlier. The Settings panel on the right displays the event configuration. 5. Click the arrow next to Run this PROCESS, then select the process that the bot will execute. Save the changes to the app. In this walkthrough, we created individual components separately within their respective tabs in the AppSheet editor. The editor also lets you intuitively design all the components when you create the bot. You can configure the event, process, steps, and tasks without switching between tabs to configure the individual components. To test the bot, navigate to the Manage > Deploy tab in the AppSheet editor, and run a deployment check. Resolve any errors and optionally any warnings that might be reported. Then, to deploy the app, click Move app to deployed state. If the app is not deployed, bots will only deliver emails to the app owner. Now, as part of the employee onboarding process, when a new employee record is created with the app, the New Employee created event occurs, which triggers the Employee Onboarded bot. The bot runs the New Employee process which executes the Send Email task and an email is sent to the recipient. AppSheet automatically substitutes the name of the employee in the email subject and body from the new row in the Employee table.

### Video - [Automation features](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399578)

- [YouTube: Automation features](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5fUyMhANtIg)

In this lesson, we discuss some additional features of the constructs that are used in AppSheet Automation. Let’s start with bots. The AppSheet Automation platform understands user intent and recommends configuration options that align with what you are trying to achieve. For example, selecting the suggested bot Send a notification monthly, creates a fully configured bot, including the event, process, and task. Bots can perform functions such as: Creating and sending an email, SMS message, or push notification. Updating a table row. Adding, updating, and deleting child rows of a row that is being updated. Calling a webhook to invoke an external web service or API. Invoking the AppSheet API with a webhook. To allow data change steps in a bot to trigger other bots that are listening for the same data change events, enable the option Trigger other bots. If enabled, the following policies are enforced to avoid infinite event-trigger loops: An event that is a result of a data change that was made by the bot cannot trigger the same bot. If two bots trigger each other continuously in succession, the maximum number of triggers that can be initiated between them is 5. For example: Bot A triggers bot B Bot B then triggers bot A Bot A triggers bot B again which triggers bot A which then triggers bot B No additional triggers of these bots will be allowed for this event instance. Enable the option Wait for execution to complete to instruct the app to sync data changes only after this bot, and all bots that it triggers, complete their execution. If disabled, the app syncs data after this bot completes its execution, even if triggered bots are still executing. You can configure an icon for a bot to identify it more easily in the AppSheet editor. In the Documentation section of the bot definition, you can enter a descriptive comment that helps other app collaborators understand the purpose of the bot. Let’s discuss more about events in AppSheet. AppSheet Automation supports two types of events: data change events and scheduled events. In a data change event, a bot listens for user initiated data change events in the app. In a scheduled event, a bot runs on a periodic schedule. You can create bots that are triggered by a data change event, such as adding, updating, or deleting data in a table that is used by the app. For example, you can trigger a bot when: The app is used to add a new data row to a table. The app is used to update an existing data row in a table. The update might occur as the result of editing a row in a form view or invoking an action in the app. The app is used to delete an existing data row from a table. Other examples of data change events occur when: A data change action is invoked on the AppSheet client. For example, if you have an additional table column whose only purpose is to trigger a bot, you can create a client action button that updates the value in the column. Clicking the action button triggers the bot. The AppSheet API is used to add, update, or delete a data row. Actions are discussed in a previous course, Building No-Code Apps with AppSheet: Implementation. You can configure the event to trigger a bot when the app is used to add a new data row to a table, and update or delete an existing data row. In addition, you can configure the event with a condition that triggers the bot only when the condition is true. For example, you can trigger a bot when a new row is added to a table if the value in a column of the new row meets a specific condition. For example, the employee hire date is greater than or equal to today’s date. You can also configure the event to bypass any security filter to allow the app to access the table data strictly for the purposes of evaluating the condition. You can use a bot that is triggered on a schedule that you specify. A bot triggered on a schedule can work on any table and perform various functions. Note that the bots that are triggered by scheduled events run only when the app is deployed. You can set the following schedule for an event: Daily, at a specific time of day. Weekly, on specific days of the week and at a specific time of day. Monthly, on a specific day of the month and at a specific time of day. Monthly, during a specific week of the month, on specific days of that week, and at a specific time of day. You can also configure a specific time zone to be used. In addition, you can enable the scheduled event to: Trigger the bot for each row in a table. Trigger the bot when a condition is true. Bypass security filters to evaluate the condition. Let’s now review processes, steps, and tasks in AppSheet. A process combines tasks into composite activities. A simple process might quickly run a set of tasks sequentially, but a complex process might involve tasks that take a long time to complete. Examples of simple processes are: Sending an email Creating a file Examples of complex processes are: Iterating over many rows of a table and executing a task for each row. Calling other processes. Waiting for human interaction. You can configure a process with: Inputs (a table that the process will work on), and A sequence of steps In the example shown, the New Employee process is configured with the Employee table and the Send email step. This step executes the Send email task. After a process is created, you can configure a bot to run the process. A process can be used by more than one bot. The number of bots that use a given process is indicated by a reusability number that is displayed alongside the process name. To view the list of bots that currently use a process, click the number. The names of the bots that currently use the process are displayed in the Linked instances dialog. When editing or deleting a process, consider the effect to all the bots that use that process. A step is a basic element in a process that typically defines a task to be executed. A process can have several steps. There are different types of steps: Run a task Run a data action Branch on a condition Wait Call a process Return values As seen earlier, the Run a task step type lets you run a specific task, such as Send an email. Tasks are reusable components and can be used in multiple processes. In the Tasks tab, a task displays a reusability indicator (a number next to the task name) to indicate the number of processes that use the task. To display a list of processes that use the task, click the reusability number. AppSheet supports the following categories of tasks: Send an email Send a notification Send an SMS message Call a webhook Create a new file Call a script (Apps Script) Let’s now review the other types of steps. The Run a data action step type lets you perform the following data change actions to tables that your app uses: Add new rows to the selected table. Delete a row from the table. Set row values by configuring specific columns of a table row and their values with the Expression Assistant. Run an action on rows by configuring the referenced table and the referenced rows with the Expression Assistant, and selecting the referenced action. Run grouped actions on a row of the table. The Branch on a condition step type lets you implement conditional logic in your process. For this step type, use the Expression Assistant to provide a conditional (Yes/No) expression that evaluates to true or false. If the condition evaluates to true, then the steps configured on the YES branch are executed. If the condition evaluates to false, the steps configured on the NO branch are executed. You can configure one or more steps on each branch of the step condition. The Wait step type enables a process to pause execution based on: A condition, or A time period The Wait for Condition can be any valid (Yes/No) expression, which when evaluated to true, causes the process to resume its execution. You can configure a custom timeout period that specifies the maximum amount of time for the process to wait before resuming execution if the condition does not evaluate to true. The timeout period must have a minimum value of 5 minutes and a maximum value of 30 days. If a custom timeout period is not configured and the condition does not evaluate to true, the process will terminate after 30 days. You can also optionally configure one or more steps in the timeout branch that will execute once the timeout period has elapsed. To exit the process flow from the timeout branch, configure the last step as a Return values step type, otherwise execution resumes in the main process flow. You can use the Wait step type to wait for a time-sensitive status or other value in a table column to change, and then execute steps based on the updated column value. For example, an approval/reject status flow that is time-sensitive can be implemented with the Wait step type in a process. Instead of a wait condition, you can specify a time period to wait, before the process resumes its execution. The time period can be a date/time expression that returns a Duration value, and must be between 5 minutes and 30 days.

### Video - [Auto constructs and looping](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399579)

- [YouTube: Auto constructs and looping](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=38VXgvjMAIA)

AppSheet Automation is an intent-aware platform that interprets user intent and provides suggestions and configuration options that align with what you are trying to achieve. Let’s see this feature of AppSheet automation in action. Create a new bot, as shown, for the sample employee onboarding app. We’d like the bot to send an email when an employee record is updated in the app. If you type update for the Bot name, you will see a drop-down list of suggestions, which include the intent to send an email when a row of the Employee table is updated. When the suggestion is selected, AppSheet automatically creates the bot, event, process, step, and task. You can now customize the task that sends the email by configuring it with the recipient email addresses, email content, and other information. You can also further customize the event, process, and bot with other options as required. With AppSheet Automation, you can run a scheduled bot on multiple rows of a table. In our employee onboarding sample app, employees are expected to complete new hire training within two weeks of their hire date. Let’s automate this process to check if this has occurred for each employee, and if required, send them a weekly reminder email. We use a separate table called Training to track employee training completion and store the Employee ID and New hire training completed date columns there. Based on the underlying structure of the table or sheet, these columns are automatically configured for our app. The next step is to create an automation bot in AppSheet and configure it with an event, process, step, and task. To create and configure an automation bot in the AppSheet editor: Navigate to the Automation > Bots tab, and click New Bot. 2. Name the bot Check New Hire Training Completion To configure the event that will trigger the bot: Click Configure event. 2. Type the event name. Then, to configure the event in the Settings panel: Set the event type to Schedule. 2. Set the schedule to Weekly. 3. Select the Day of the week and the Time when the event should take place. 4. Set the Time zone to be used for the event. 5. Enable ForEachRowInTable to trigger the event for a subset of rows in the table. 6. For the table to query, select Training. 7. Set the Filter Condition to select only those rows in the Training table with an empty value in the New hire training completed column. Next, follow these steps to create and configure the process that the bot will run when the event is triggered: Create and name the process. 2. Click Add a step. 3. Click Create a custom step. 4. Name the step and change its type to Branch on a condition by selecting it from the list. 5. Use the Expression Assistant to enter the branch condition. The condition checks if the employee hire date was before the current date. 6. If the condition is false (for employees with hire dates of today or in the future), we return from the process. To implement this, create a step of type Return values and add it to the NO branch of the process. 7. If the condition is true, create a step that executes a task to send a reminder email to the employee to complete their training, and add the step to the YES branch of the process. To configure the task in the Settings panel: Enter a task name: Send New Hire Training Reminder 2. Select the Send an email task type. 3. For Email Type, select Custom template. 4. For Table name, select Training. 5. In the To (recipient) field, set the employee email address. The address is fetched from the Employee table by using a reference from the Training table with the expression [Employee ID]. [Email] 6. To customize the email content, enter the email subject: New Hire Training Reminder. 7. Enter the content of the email into the Email Body. The email body uses template variables to compute a date that is two weeks from the employee hire date. When the event is triggered, employees who have not completed the training will get an email that reminds them that they must complete it by the specified date.

### Video - [Lab: Implementing Automation in AppSheet](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399580)

- [YouTube: Lab: Implementing Automation in AppSheet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F23LfN-DkOI)

In this lab on Implementing Automation in AppSheet, you’ll learn how to: Use the automation features of AppSheet to create bots, events, processes, and tasks. Trigger a bot to send email when a new data row is added to a table in the app. Run a data action with automation to create rows in a table used by the app. Execute a scheduled bot that processes multiple rows in a table.

### Lab - [Implementing Automation in AppSheet](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/labs/399581)

In this lab, you'll use AppSheet to create automation for your app.

- [ ] [Implementing Automation in AppSheet](../labs/Implementing-Automation-in-AppSheet.md)

### Video - [Apps Script integration](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399582)

- [YouTube: Apps Script integration](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JSIpR6n9tzc)

What is Apps Script? Apps Script is Google Workspace’s integrated low-code application development platform that lets you quickly and easily create business applications that integrate with Google Workspace. You can write code in modern JavaScript and have access to built-in libraries for Google Workspace applications like Gmail, Calendar, Drive, and others. For example, with Apps Script you can: Add custom menus, dialogs, and sidebars to Docs, Sheets, and Forms. Write custom functions and macros for Sheets. Interact with other Google services, including Calendar, Drive, Gmail, and Maps. For more information, refer to the documentation at the link provided in the PDF for this course. AppSheet lets you build custom applications on top of Google Workspace applications and other apps and services without writing any code. Apps Script lets you extend and modify the behavior of Google Workspace applications with just a few lines of code. Together, AppSheet and Apps Script let users extend the power of Google Workspace by helping to build business apps, workflows, and automations. Apps Script is built with the business user in mind and has removed many complexities; making it easier to customize Google Workspace applications. Nothing must be downloaded or configured, and servers or infrastructure don’t need to be maintained. If you don’t have much coding experience, you might be hesitant to use Apps Script. However, developers and non-technical users alike can use Apps Script to quickly and easily build solutions that customize and automate Google Workspace applications through support resources such as example solutions and scripts that users share in forums and online tutorials. Although AppSheet and Apps Script can be used separately to build apps and custom solutions, they can also be used together to help you do even more. Here are two use cases: Gather and format data from multiple sources with Apps Script, then to interact with the data, create an app with AppSheet. Build an app in AppSheet that can trigger Apps Script workflows within Google Workspace. You manage how and when the workflows are triggered by defining automation events in AppSheet. You can invoke Apps Script from an AppSheet automation bot in your app. AppSheet currently supports standalone scripts. These scripts are not bound to a Google Workspace application object such as a sheet, doc, or slide. Standalone scripts are stored in a project folder on Drive. Let’s see how to use Apps Script with our sample employee onboarding AppSheet app. We use a script to create a calendar event when the user schedules a follow-up meeting with the employee. First, we add another column to our Training table to store the follow-up meeting date. The user will set this date in the app. Next, we create an Apps Script project. An Apps Script project includes: One or more script files (.gs) to define your custom integrations. Optional HTML files that might include JavaScript and CSS to create custom templates and layouts. To create an Apps Script project: Open Drive. 2. Click New > More > Google Apps Script located in the Drive navigation menu. This opens the Apps Script project editor. Here you can create your project with the script code and other resources. 3. Rename the project with an appropriate name. For this walkthrough, we use a script from a set of AppSheet examples. The createCalendarEvent function creates a new Calendar event with the title, startDateTime, and endDateTime values passed in as arguments. To save the project, click Save in the Apps Script editor menu bar. The next step is to create an automation bot in AppSheet and configure it with an event, process, step, and task to call a script. To create an automation bot in the AppSheet editor: Create the bot in the Automation > Bots tab and name it appropriately. To create an event that will trigger the bot, click Configure event. 3. Name the event that will trigger the bot. 4. Configure the event: Set the type of event as a Data Change event. b. Enable the event to trigger when a row in the Training table is updated. c. Specify a condition for the event that checks if the follow-up scheduled date is not empty and is later than the current date. The event will only occur when the user updates the training record of an employee with a follow-up scheduled date in the future. 5. Create and name the process that will execute when this bot is triggered. a. Add a custom step in the process that runs a task. 6. Create a new task and name it appropriately. 7. Configure the task: Set the task type to Call a script. b. Configure the task with the Training table so that the task can run against it. c. Select the Apps Script project that was created earlier from Drive. If requested, click Authorize to authorize the Apps Script project to run. d. Select the createCalendarEvent function from the project, and provide values for the function arguments. The argument values are computed with date/time expressions from the value in the Follow-up scheduled column in the table. This function uses the start and end date/times supplied as arguments to create a calendar event. Save the changes to the app. Now, when a follow-up date is set in the app, an event is created in Calendar. You can manage your Apps Scripts projects from your AppSheet account within the AppSheet editor: Navigate to the My Account page. 2. On the Integrations tab, click Apps Scripts in the left navigation menu. The Apps Script Projects are displayed. AppSheet automatically adds the project to your AppSheet account when you configure the “Call a script” task to a bot in your app. To remove access to an Apps Script project from your AppSheet user or team account: First, delete all references to the Apps Script project in your apps. Then, select the menu for the Apps Script project, and click Delete. These are things you should consider when you use Apps Script projects with AppSheet: Apps Script executions are subject to standard Google Workspace quotas. Apps Script automation tasks are available for users in the AppSheet Core plan and higher. AppSheet pricing plans An Apps Script project must be a standalone project rather than a container-bound project.

### Video - [Lab: Using Apps Script with AppSheet automation](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399583)

- [YouTube: Lab: Using Apps Script with AppSheet automation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5zZMPk8Lhgk)

In this lab on using Apps Script with AppSheet automation, you create an Apps Script project with simple code to schedule an event on Calendar. You then implement an automation bot in AppSheet that invokes the Apps Script script.

### Lab - [Using Apps Script with AppSheet Automation](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/labs/399584)

In this lab, you'll use Apps Script with AppSheet automation in your app.

- [ ] [Using Apps Script with AppSheet Automation](../labs/Using-Apps-Script-with-AppSheet-Automation.md)

### Video - [Monitoring automation](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399585)

- [YouTube: Monitoring automation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tZFW5vLO8Q8)

As you create and deploy multiple bots in your app, monitoring bot executions becomes important. Some bots might have executed successfully, others might have encountered errors or might be pending. The AppSheet automation monitor lets you monitor your automation bot workflows in the AppSheet UI. To access the automation monitor: Open your app in the AppSheet editor and navigate to the Manage > Monitor tab. 2. Click Automation Monitor. 3. Click Launch automation monitor to open the monitor in a separate browser tab or window. The automation monitor displays bot metrics, details about bot runs, and document parses for your apps. You can also launch the automation monitor by clicking Monitor in a bot definition from the Automation > Bots tab in the AppSheet editor. The automation monitor displays the following information in separate tabs: Bot metrics Bot executions (runs) Document parses Let’s review each of these tabs. To view bot metrics: On the main menu of the automation monitor, click Settings. 2. From the Settings page, select the Monitoring Time Range and the App To Monitor. You can specify standard time ranges of the last 7, 15, or 30 days, or specify a custom date and time range. 3. After selecting the app to monitor and specifying the date and time range, click Save. 4. From the bottom navigation bar, click Metrics. 5. You can also select an app in the left pane to view bot metrics for that app. For the monitoring time range specified, the metrics page displays: Aggregated bot status of all bots used by the app Bot status by day Bot average time to completion by day To view bot executions or runs: Set the time range as described earlier. From the navigation bar of the automation monitor, click Runs. To view the bot executions for that app, select an app in the left pane. The Runs page displays details of bot executions for: Bot instances Events Processes Process steps and step details You can select a specific bot execution to view the details about the event that triggered the bot and the process and steps that were executed. You can also select a step in the process to view the details about the execution of that step. With the document parsing feature, AppSheet lets you extract content from documents that are stored on your cloud provider. We will discuss document parsing in detail in the next module of this course. In this section, we discuss how you can monitor document parsing in AppSheet by using the automation monitor. To monitor document parsing in the automation monitor: Set the time range as described earlier. 2. In the bottom navigation bar of the automation monitor, click Document Parses. 3. Select an app in the left pane. The Document Parses page displays a summary of all document parsing activity for the selected app and time range. The Status column indicates whether the document parsing succeeded or failed, and might indicate a status with issues that might need to be resolved. For more details on the various status values, refer to the AppSheet documentation. We will discuss document parsing status in the next module of this course.

### Quiz - [Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/quizzes/399586)

#### Quiz 1.

> [!important]
> **What can you monitor with the AppSheet automation monitor app? Select three.**
>
> - [ ] Bot runs
> - [ ] App usage
> - [ ] Bot metrics
> - [ ] Document parses
> - [ ] App performance

#### Quiz 2.

> [!important]
> **With what two inputs do you configure an automation process in AppSheet?**
>
> - [ ] Table
> - [ ] User email
> - [ ] Task
> - [ ] Sequence of steps
> - [ ] Event

#### Quiz 3.

> [!important]
> **What are some categories of automation tasks available in AppSheet? Select three.**
>
> - [ ] Send an SMS.
> - [ ] Call a webhook.
> - [ ] Create a table.
> - [ ] Create a user account.
> - [ ] Send a notification.

#### Quiz 4.

> [!important]
> **What are some characteristics of automation events in AppSheet? Select three.**
>
> - [ ] An event can trigger a bot when a table row is added or updated in the app.
> - [ ] An event that is a result of a data change step made by a bot can trigger the same bot.
> - [ ] An event can trigger a bot on a periodic schedule.
> - [ ] An event can trigger a bot based on data changes made in the app.
> - [ ] An event cannot trigger a bot when data is deleted from a table in the app.

#### Quiz 5.

> [!important]
> **Which statements on integrating Apps Script with AppSheet are correct? Select two.**
>
> - [ ] There is no limit on the number of Apps Script executions that can be performed.
> - [ ] Collect data from multiple sources with Apps Script, and use AppSheet to interact with that data.
> - [ ] When used with AppSheet, Apps Script projects can contain standalone or container-bound scripts.
> - [ ] Trigger Apps Script workflows in Google Workspace from AppSheet.

### Video - [Module Review](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399587)

- [YouTube: Module Review](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRmaY-mIMG4)

Congratulations on completing this module on process automation with AppSheet. Let’s do a quick review. In this module, you learned how to implement automation in AppSheet with the help of sample use cases. We discussed additional features of bots, events, processes, steps, and tasks that are used in AppSheet Automation. You also learned that AppSheet is an intent-aware platform and reviewed scenarios in which AppSheet interpreted user input and provided suggestions and configuration options that aligned with the goals of the application. We discussed Apps Script integration and how you can create apps that leverage the power of Google Workspace by building business workflows and automations. Finally, we discussed how to monitor automation workflows in AppSheet to monitor bot execution status, runs, and document parses.

## Notifications and Reports

Use automation to send push notifications, dynamic emails and text messages from your app.

### Video - [Push notifications](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399588)

- [YouTube: Push notifications](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EpNz9vFlDWU)

Welcome to the module on notifications, messaging, and report generation. In this module, we discuss how you can use automation bots in AppSheet to send push notifications, text messages, and embedded app view emails. We also discuss how to generate files and reports from your app. In this first lesson, you learn how to send push notifications and text messages from your AppSheet app. Let’s get started. What is a push notification? A push notification is a mechanism to alert app users with a message that is directly delivered to the home screen of their mobile device. An application provider or server initiates the notification and the user doesn't need to open any specific app on the device to receive the message. The user must agree to receive push notifications from a given app. To send push notifications, the app provider registers with a push notification service for the mobile device operating system (Android, iOS). The push notification service routes the notification from the application provider to the app user’s device. As the app creator, you can use AppSheet to easily create and send push notifications. Once created, push notifications can be triggered by app activity from any user. Let’s walk through this process with our sample employee onboarding app. As discussed in the previous module, we create a bot, event, process, and step in the automation section of the AppSheet editor. We will repeat this process to set up push notifications that are sent by the app. First, we will begin by creating a task. To create a task: Navigate to the Automation > Tasks tab in the AppSheet editor. 2. Click New Task. To configure the task: Select the Task category: Send a notification. 2. Enter a Task name: Send hire date change notification. Our sample bot will send this notification whenever the hire date of an employee is modified in the app. 3. For Table name, select the table whose data is used by the task. In this case, it’s the Employee table. 4. To add the recipients of the push notification, Click Add, and enter their email addresses. 5. To customize the content of the notification message, disable the option: Use default content. 6. Provide the title, body, and an optional DeepLink for the content of the notification message. 7. Click Save. The notification message body uses template variables to substitute data values from the Employee table. In particular, the _THISROW_BEFORE and _THISROW_AFTER variables are used for the Hire date column to include its value before and after an Employee row is updated in the app. We will discuss template variables in a lesson later in this module. Next, create a process with a step that uses our newly created task. To create the process: Navigate to the Automation > Processes tab in the Appsheet editor. Click New Process and provide a name for the process. For this use case, we name the process: Notify hire date change. 3. Select the table that this process applies to: Employee. 4. Add a step to the process and provide a name for the step. 5. For the step type, select Run a task, then select the task that was created earlier. 6. Click Save. Next, we create an event that will trigger a bot that executes this process. To create an event: Navigate to the Automation > Events tab in the AppSheet editor. 2. Click New Event, and provide a name for the event. 3. Set the Event Type to Data change, then select Updates only. This event will only trigger a bot when a row in the table is updated in the app. 4. For the table whose data updates trigger the event, select Employee. 5. Click into the Condition field to launch the Expression Assistant. Because we want the notification to be sent only when the value in the Hire date column is updated, in the Expression Assistant, type the condition shown: [_THISROW_BEFORE]. [Hire Date] <> [_THISROW_AFTER]. [Hire Date] If the value in the Hire date column is different after the update, the expression returns true . When the value is updated, the event is triggered. 6. Click Save. Finally, we create a bot that will be triggered by this event. To create a bot: Navigate to the Automation > Bots tab in the AppSheet editor. 2. Click New Bot, and provide a name for the bot. 3. To configure the event that triggers the bot, click Configure event. 4. From the list of events, select the event that was created earlier. 5. From the list of processes, select the process that was created earlier. 6. Click Save. We now have all the components in place for our automation bot. Let’s test it in the app preview. First, edit one of the employee records by updating the employee’s hire date. Then, click Save to update the data to the backend. After the record is updated, a notification is received on the user’s registered mobile device. The notification is sent to the user whose email address was specified in the task’s configuration. Each time the employee’s hire date is updated with a different date, a notification is received by the user. Let’s review the requirements for receiving push notifications. For a user to receive AppSheet push notifications: The app must have passed a deployment check and be deployed. This requirement ensures that you do not inadvertently send email messages, SMS messages, or notifications when you debug your bot. The user must have signed into at least one AppSheet app that requires user authentication by using the email address that is specified in the To property of the task configuration. (This app can be different from the app that sends the push notification). Note that to sign in to an app from a device, the iOS or Android AppSheet hosting app must first be installed on the device. The specified user email address must be translated to an AppSheet user ID by AppSheet. The user ID must then be translated into a list of one or more Firebase Cloud Messaging device tokens by AppSheet. A unique device token is registered for each device that the user has used to sign in to an AppSheet app. If the user has more than one device and has signed in to an AppSheet app from those devices, a notification is sent to each one of them. If AppSheet cannot find an AppSheet user ID for the user email address specified in the To property of the task configuration, or cannot find at least one device token for the AppSheet user ID, an entry is added in the app’s audit history that reports a warning. Let’s review how you can set the To property of the notification task. The value of the To property in the notification task configuration specifies the email addresses of the recipients of the push notification. You can specify the value of this property in the following ways: Use a specific email address. Email addresses that contain special characters such as hyphen or plus must be enclosed in quotes. Multiple email addresses must be entered on a separate line. Use the email address value from a column of the row that is being added or updated. For example, [CustomerEmail]. The column name must be enclosed in square brackets. Use a column value of the row that is referenced by the row being added or updated. Use the values in a column from all the rows of a table by using the expression: TableName[EmailAddressColumn]. This expression can be used to provide multiple email addresses as the value of the To property. Let’s review how you can set the title and body of the notification message. To set the title of the notification message, you can: Use the default title generated by AppSheet. Override the default title by configuring the task with your own title text. The title can optionally include variables whose values are substituted by AppSheet when the notification is sent. In our sample onboarding app, we can include the employee ID in the title or in the body of the notification message about the change in the hire date. The employee ID is stored in the ID column of the Employee table. To set the body of the notification message, you can: Use the default body generated by AppSheet. Override the default body content to use your own customized text with optional variables. In our sample employee onboarding app, we customize the employee hire date change notification message body as shown. You can also specify a DeepLink to include in the notification message. The DeepLink can link to: Your AppSheet app (default) A view or filtered view within your app A specific row in a view within your app A form within your app with pre-filled values You can also use a custom deep link generated from an expression. This is a DeepLink to our sample employee onboarding app.

### Video - [Template variables](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399589)

- [YouTube: Template variables](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QW57L836csY)

As we’ve seen in the previous video, you can use variables in email and notification templates and expressions to dynamically substitute the value of data items. In this video, we review the kinds of template variables that you can use in AppSheet. AppSheet supports three kinds of variables: Column name Expression Built-in A column name variable lets you display or retrieve the data value stored in a column of a sheet or database table. The column name used in the variable must: Exactly match the column name in your table. Be enclosed in square brackets. The column name variable is substituted with the value in that column from the table. The example shows how you can display the value of an Employee Name column in your template. An expression variable lets you compute values. For example, to display the result of the Amount column (Amt) value multiplied by the Quantity column (Qty) value in your template, use the expression shown. The variable is substituted with the result of the expression’s evaluation. To display the value of a column in a referenced row, use a dereference expression variable (which is a type of expression variable). For example, if you have a column named Product of type Ref in a table that refers to a Products table that has a column named Price, you can use this expression to substitute the price of a product in a template: Built-in variables let you include values supplied by AppSheet in your template. Built-in variable names always begin with an underscore (_). Here are a few examples of AppSheet built-in variables: <>: App GUID (globally unique identifier). <>: The name of your app. <>: The current date. For a full list of AppSheet built-in variables, refer to the AppSheet documentation: A bot that is triggered by an update to a table row in an AppSheet app can access the value that each column had before and after it is updated. The column value before the update (the before value) is obtained from the worksheet row or database table record just before the update is applied. It might not be the same column value that was present on the client device when the update was made, because another client device could have already updated the value. In this case, when the first client device makes an update, the before value will contain the update made by the second client. The column value after the update, also known as the after value, contains the column value obtained from the worksheet row or database table record just after the update is applied. It includes any computed value generated by Sheets, Excel, or SmartSheet worksheet formulas. AppSheet re-reads the added or updated row after the Google Sheets, Excel, or SmartSheet provider has recomputed its worksheet formulas. The after value does not reflect the result of any data change actions that might be executed when invoked by the bot, and only reflects the changes made by the addition or update that triggered the bot. You can use the before and after values: To display them in the title and body of notification messages. In conditional expressions to include or exclude portions of the body and attachment templates of notification messages. In event conditions to control whether a bot is triggered. To reference the before value of a column, use the variable: <<[_THISROW_BEFORE]. [Column Name]>> To reference the after value of a column, use the variable: <<[_THISROW_AFTER]. [Column Name]>> To determine if a column value was changed, compare their values in a conditional expression: [_THISROW_BEFORE]. [Column Name] <> [_THISROW_AFTER]. [Column Name]

### Video - [Lab: Sending Push Notifications with AppSheet Automation](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399590)

- [YouTube: Lab: Sending Push Notifications with AppSheet Automation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CTC_nJbDR5s)

In this lab on sending push notifications with AppSheet Automation, you’ll learn how to: create an AppSheet Automation task to send a push notification. Customize the body of the notification message, with template variables. Create the event, process, and bot to send the notification. and verify the receipt of the notification on a mobile device.

### Lab - [Sending Push Notifications with AppSheet Automation](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/labs/399591)

In this lab, you'll use AppSheet automation to send push notifications from your app.

- [ ] [Sending Push Notifications with AppSheet Automation](../labs/Sending-Push-Notifications-with-AppSheet-Automation.md)

### Video - [Embedded app view emails](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399592)

- [YouTube: Embedded app view emails](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cS_dtp17hpY)

Embedded app view emails leverage dynamic email in Gmail that enables users to interact directly with your app in an email, instead of clicking a link in the email to access the app in a separate browser tab or window. For example, in our sample employee app, if an employee requests an item that needs approval, an automation bot can send an email to a manager to request the approval. The manager can then submit the approval directly within the email instead of navigating to the app to do the same thing. Here are some things about embedded app view emails to consider: To view embedded app view email content, the recipient must be an app user. If the content in the embedded app view email becomes outdated, the recipient is instructed to refresh the content. Embedded app view emails are interactive for a fixed period, currently 30 days. After this period, the dynamic portion of the email will no longer render and users will have to navigate to the app to edit the data. If you want recipients who are outside your domain to receive embedded app view emails, enable the option in your app to require user consent. This can be done in the Security > Options tab in the AppSheet editor. Let’s now review how you can create embedded app view emails for your app. We’ll use a sample facilities inspection app to walk through the process of creating an embedded app view email. The sample app enables inspectors to report on the status of the facilities within a building. To create an embedded app view email for your app: Create an automation bot. Our sample app has an automation bot named Inspection Passed. 2. Next, create an event that will trigger the bot. In our sample app, the bot is triggered by an event that checks when a new row with a status of Inspection Passed is added to the Inspections table. 3. Then, create a process that is executed when the bot is triggered. Add a step to the process that runs a task. b. Set the task category to Send an email. 4. Configure the task: a. Set the Email Type to Embedded app view. b. Set the name of the table that contains the facility inspection data: Inspections. c. Set the email recipients, email subject, and email body. The configuration in our sample app sends the embedded app view email to the facilities inspector and the inspector’s manager, who are both users of the app. d. Set the view to be displayed in the embedded app view email. For this task, we use the app’s Inspections_Detail view that displays the columns of an individual row from the Inspections table, or an individual inspection. 5. Click Save. For embedded app view emails, you can configure two types of views: Detail view The detail view displays the details of a table row in the app and in the email. To enable an app user to update the values of columns in the detail view, add one or more Quick edit columns to the view. Our sample app includes the Manager Approval Quick edit column in the app’s Inspections_Detail view. Quick edit is an AppSheet feature that lets you mark specific columns to be editable directly from an app’s detail view. Form view The form view is used in an embedded app view email to capture input from the app user. All columns in the form view are editable in the email and are validated when the user submits the form. With the facility inspector role, add a new inspection entry in the app. To add an inspection entry, we use the app preview in the AppSheet editor. The new passed inspection entry triggers the bot that sends the embedded app view email to the recipients that are configured in the task. When an app user who is a manager receives the email, they can click Yes or No in the email to approve or reject the inspection. Clicking Yes or No in the email saves the data in the form to the app’s table, and populates the manager approval date and time column in the sheet used by the app. The date and time are then displayed in the email. Some current limitations of embedded app view emails are: They are supported by the Gmail client only. If another client is used to access the email, the recipient must navigate to the app to edit the contents. Only the detail and form view types are supported. Some AppSheet column types such as Change, Content, Price, Progress, Show, and Signature are not supported as editable fields in the embedded app view email. If you forward an embedded app view email, the dynamic portion of the email will no longer render and users will have to click a link to the app to view and edit the data. Currently, embedded app view emails are interactive for 30 days. After 30 days, the dynamic portion of the email will no longer render, and users will have to click a link to navigate to the app to view and edit the data. For a complete list of limitations, read the documentation on the AppSheet website.

### Video - [Lab: Interacting with Embedded App View Emails in AppSheet](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399593)

- [YouTube: Lab: Interacting with Embedded App View Emails in AppSheet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZehhtwRa2bI)

In this lab on interacting with embedded app view emails, you’ll learn how to: Configure an automation task to send an embedded app view email. Configure Quick edit columns to enable interaction with dynamic email content. Create the process, event, and bot to send an embedded app view email. Verify the data changes in the app preview that were made through the email.

### Lab - [Interacting with Embedded App View Emails in AppSheet](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/labs/399594)

In this lab, you'll use AppSheet automation to create embedded app view emails that enable users to interact with your app.

- [ ] [Interacting with Embedded App View Emails in AppSheet](../labs/Interacting-with-Embedded-App-View-Emails-in-AppSheet.md)

### Video - [Messaging from a bot](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399595)

- [YouTube: Messaging from a bot](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eLL8ccgs0lo)

In AppSheet, you can use a bot to send an SMS message to an app user. AppSheet sends SMS messages through Twilio. You can either use your own Twilio account or AppSheet's Twilio account. To configure your app to send SMS messages: Create a task in the Automation > Tasks tab in the AppSheet editor. 2. Set the Task category to: Send an SMS 3. Name the task appropriately. 4. Select the table that this task will work against. 5. Select the messaging channel: The _AppSheet_Default_SMS channel uses AppSheet‚Äôs Twilio account and only works in the US and Canada. The _Custom_Twilio_SMS channel uses your own Twilio account and custom settings that include country codes to validate phone numbers. 6. Add the list of phone numbers to send the SMS message to. 7. To customize the content of the message, disable the Use default content option. 8. Provide the content of the message body inline or use a template file. 9. Optionally, add any media URLs such as images or thumbnails to attach to the SMS message. 10. Click Save. We then use this task as a step in a process that is executed by a bot. Our sample facilities inspection app uses the Inspection Failed bot that is triggered when a new failed inspection is created. In its current implementation, the process sends an email notification to the inspector and a staff manager. We want to enhance the process to also send an SMS message that alerts the manager when the doors of a facility are left unlocked. To implement this capability, we modify the current process: Add a step of type: Branch on a condition. This type of step lets you implement conditional logic in a process. 2. Specify the condition expression. In this example, we check that the value stored in the Doors Locked? column of the current row in the Inspections table is true. 3. If the condition evaluates to true, the process returns or exits. For this step, we use the Return values step type. 4. If the condition evaluates to false (which indicates that the doors are left unlocked), we add another step to execute the Send an SMS message task that was created earlier. 5. To save the changes to the app, click Save. When a new failed inspection is created in the app, and the inspection point has doors that are left unlocked, the recipient gets an SMS message on their phone in addition to the failed inspection email message. Here are some aspects to consider when you use SMS messaging: To use SMS messaging with AppSheet, you must be enrolled in an appropriate AppSheet subscription plan. SMS messages cannot be sent to premium-rate phone numbers such as those in the US that begin with 9xx. The app must be deployed. If the app is not deployed, SMS messages are sent only to the app creator. Recipient phone numbers: Must be enclosed in quotes if special characters like hyphens, parentheses, or spaces are specified. Can be specified as expressions that evaluate to phone numbers. Can be obtained from a column value in a table row that is added or updated in the app. The column name must be specified in square brackets. Can be obtained from a column value in a table row that is referenced from the row that is added or updated in the app. Can be obtained from a column value in all the rows of a table. For example, assuming that you store a list of manager phone numbers in the Phone column of a Managers table, you can specify: Managers[Phone]. For additional considerations, view the documentation on the AppSheet website.

### Video - [Generating files and reports](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399596)

- [YouTube: Generating files and reports](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cPrbAYOWVJU)

In AppSheet, you can create and save a file from a bot. In this video, we discuss how you can create files and generate reports with AppSheet Automation. To create a file, you configure the process of a bot with a task that creates a new file. Let’s walk through the process of creating a file that serves as an inspection report for our sample facilities inspection app. In the Automation > Tasks tab in the AppSheet editor: Click New Task. 2. For the task category, select Create a new file. 3. Enter an appropriate name for the task: Inspection Report. 4. Select the table that the task will work against. We select the Inspections table because the data for the report will come from there. 5. Select the file’s content type. AppSheets supports CSV, HTML, ICS calendar, JSON, PDF, XLS, and XML formats. 6. Create a Template to provide and format the file’s contents. To create a template: Click Create. AppSheet creates a file on the cloud provider file system and displays the document ID in the Template property. 2. To open the template file, click View. Because we use Google as our cloud provider, the template file that was created is a Docs file and is stored on Drive. The default template contains data about an inspection. It uses column variables whose values are substituted with the column values from the inspection row that is created or updated when the task is executed. You can modify and format the contents of the template and save the file when you’re done. Let’s continue with the steps to finish creating the task: 6. Set the storage location of the file. The Default setting is used to store the file on your cloud provider’s file system, for example on Drive. 7. Optionally set the folder path that is relative to the default app folder where the file is saved. 8. Specify a filename prefix (by default this is set to AppSheetDoc). You can use an expression to generate a dynamic value for this property. 9. AppSheet automatically adds a timestamp to the filename to make it unique. If necessary, you can disable this option. Note that if this option is disabled and the filename prefix is not unique, any previously generated file might be overwritten. 10. Optionally, set properties for PDF files when they are used as attachments. To execute this task, we use a process, event, and bot by following the same steps discussed in previous lessons. Let’s add this task as a step to an inspection process. In its current implementation, the Inspection Passed process sends an email. We update this process with a step to also create an inspection file, by configuring the Inspection Report task created earlier. We then use this process in a bot that is triggered when a new passed inspection is created in the app. Finally, we save our changes to the app. Now, when an inspection that passes all the required checks is created in the app, the task to create the file is executed and a file is created on Drive. The default location of the file on Drive is in a folder called Files, which is located relative to the application folder. The content of the file matches the template that was configured for the task. Let’s briefly discuss templates in AppSheet. In AppSheet, templates are used to customize the content in files, email bodies and attachments, SMS messages and webhooks. This table lists the types of templates and their supported content types. You can include the following content in a template: Text Images Variables that refer to table column values Expressions that evaluate to computed values Start expressions that display rows of a table If expressions that let you include or exclude portions of the template The final content will have all the template variables and expressions resolved. AppSheet uses the following location and file naming conventions to ensure that the template filename is unique: The template filename consists of the task name, the string BodyTemplate or AttachmentTemplate, and the current date and time. The template file is stored in the Content folder which is relative to the application folder on your cloud provider’s file system. Let’s briefly discuss Start expressions. Start expressions: Are used in templates to include a set of rows from a table that is used by your app. They appear at the beginning of the template, and control which rows are included in the result file. To use Start expressions: Specify the StartExpression at the beginning of the template with the Start tag. The Start expression yields the list of key values of the set of table rows that are formatted with the template. To denote the end of the template, use the End tag. To include a hierarchy of rows from multiple tables, you can embed a template within another one in the template file. For example, assuming you have a relationship between the Customers, Orders, and Order Details tables, you could include their rows in a hierarchy. This template file is used in a data change bot when a row in the Orders table is updated. The file contains a template for the customer data whose order is being updated. The Customer template displays information about the customer from the referenced Customer table. The contents of the template file are evaluated in the context of the updated Orders row. The template displays data from the Orders row and the Order Details rows that are associated with that Orders row. The template file contains an embedded template to display data from the Order Details rows of the updated Orders row. The embedded template includes a Start expression to display data from the rows of the Order Details table. You can also use an embedded template with a scheduled bot. For example, you can display all open Orders with their related Order Details. The template file must include an embedded template with a Start expression to display rows from the Orders table. An embedded template for the Order Details rows is then included within the Orders template. For more details on how to use Start expressions, review the documentation on the AppSheet website. AppSheet supports the use of If expressions in templates. To conditionally include or exclude portions of a template, use <> expressions. Each <> expression begins with the <<If: yesno-expression>> tag, and ends with an <> tag. If the Yes/No expression evaluates to TRUE, the template content between <> and <> tags is included; otherwise it is excluded. For example, you might want to include information in a template based on a column’s value in a table row. If our facilities inspection data classifies certain inspection points as “sensitive” by using a table column, we can exclude an inspection point’s image in the template based on the value in this column. To implement this functionality, we can use the If expression shown in this template. If expressions are used in templates to: Display and format content based on a condition. Conditionally include a set of rows from a table with embedded <> expressions. Display expressions in table cells to format cell data. Generating a report in AppSheet is similar to creating a file. The report is typically created on a regular schedule and included as an attachment to an email. Let’s walk through the process of generating a report and attaching it to an email in our sample facilities inspection app. We first create a bot and name it Daily Inspection. Next, to configure the bot with an event, click Configure event. Create an event and name it Daily Inspection. The event will run on a schedule, so set the event type to: Schedule. Set the schedule to Daily, and set the time and time zone for the event to trigger. Next, to create a process, click the arrow next to Run this PROCESS, and click Create new process. Name the process Inspection Report, and then click Add a step. Name the step Email Inspection Report. Leave the default step type as Run a task, and from the list of task types, select Create new task. Configure the new task in the settings panel: Name the task Send Daily Inspection Report. 2. Set the task category to Send an email. 3. Set the Email Type to Custom template. 4. Select the Inspections table, whose rows are used for the task. 5. Add the recipient email addresses. 6. Provide the email subject: Daily Inspection Report for: <<TODAY()>> We use the AppSheet built-in function TODAY() to generate the current date, and use it as a variable in the email subject. You can also used the AppSheet built-in variable: <>. 7. Provide the content for the email body. The report will be in the email attachment. 8. Expand Attachment settings, and set the attachment content type to PDF. 9. Click Create to create an attachment template. A Google doc file is created and saved to Drive. 10. Click View to open the template file. The file opens in a separate browser tab. 11. Edit the contents of the template to create and format the report. A portion of the template is shown. The report template contains two tables that list the passed and failed inspections that were created in the app today. A Start expression is used to define the set of rows to include in each table with a subset of column values that are relevant for the report. The Start expression uses the TODAY() function to only include inspections that were filed with today’s date. The expression also uses the value in the Status column of the Inspections table to list passed and failed inspections in separate tables in the report. 12. Name the email attachment: Daily Inspection Report. Leave the remaining settings as their defaults and save the changes. When the bot executes, an email is sent to the recipients that are configured in the task. The email contains the report as an attachment. The report displays the inspections data for the current date as formatted by the template.

### Video - [Lab: Generating Reports with AppSheet Automation](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399597)

- [YouTube: Lab: Generating Reports with AppSheet Automation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=suqhmq_XNW8)

In this lab, you’ll learn how to: Create a simple template to generate a file with AppSheet Automation. Create and configure a task, process, data change event, and bot to generate a file on Drive. Create a template with Start expressions to generate a report. Create and configure a task, process, scheduled event, and bot to send an email with the generated report as an attachment.

### Lab - [Generating Reports with AppSheet Automation](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/labs/399598)

In this lab, you'll use AppSheet automation to generate reports from your app.

- [ ] [Generating Reports with AppSheet Automation](../labs/Generating-Reports-with-AppSheet-Automation.md)

### Video - [Processing documents](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399599)

- [YouTube: Processing documents](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mvpkiZyNeWk)

With AppSheet, you can parse and extract the contents of documents and folders. In this video, we discuss how you can implement these capabilities in your app with AppSheet Automation. AppSheet currently supports the following document processing functionalities: Document parsing to extract content and Collecting folder content and metadata Document parsing with AppSheet lets you extract content from documents by using Google’s Document AI solution. Document AI automates data capture at scale and uses: Computer vision (including OCR) and natural language processing (NLP) to create pre-trained models for documents. Google Knowledge Graph to validate and enhance the fields in your documents. With AppSheet, you can parse the following document types: Invoices Receipts W-9 forms A W-9 form is a US tax form that requests identification information of a taxpayer. The documents can be in one of the following file formats: PDF, GIF, PNG, JPEG, and TIFF. AppSheet Automation extracts a document's content based on the document type, regardless of their MIME type or extension type (such as, .pdf or .png). If a document is not one of the supported types or in one of the specified formats, it will not be processed. Additional document types and formats will be supported in the future. AppSheet currently only supports parsing documents that are stored on Drive. AppSheet uses an extraction confidence score to determine the quality of the parsed data. A document might have a low extraction confidence score because it could: Be based on scanned sources. Use complex images. Use unusual fonts. Contain spelling errors or omissions. Because of these defects, the extraction confidence score could be below 100%. If the score is below a certain threshold, an exception process is triggered so that a human can manually review the extracted data. The extraction confidence threshold value is not configurable. Documents that include a monetary amount and currency code are extracted into two columns in a table. This provides more flexibility to use the extracted data in downstream processes. If multiple currencies are used across many documents, each document is expected to use a single currency. Any inconsistencies in the extraction are flagged for review. To extract content from a document: Open the app in the AppSheet editor. 2. Navigate to the Data > Tables tab. 3. Click New Table. 4. In the Get data from… dialog, select Documents on Google Drive. Sheets on Google Drive are used to add a Google Sheet with data to your app. We discussed how to perform this task in the Building No-Code Apps with AppSheet: Implementation course. 5. Under Documents, select one of the supported document types: Invoices, Receipts, or W-9 forms. For this walkthrough, we select Receipts. 6. On Drive, navigate to the parent folder that contains the receipts folder. 7. Select the receipts folder and click Select. In the Create a new document table dialog, the Source Receipt Folder and Table Name fields are displayed and populated based on the folder that you selected. You can optionally choose a different folder, by clicking Change. The table name defaults to the folder name. If needed, you can edit the Table name. 8. Click Create Table. AppSheet creates a table for the folder’s contents with the required column structure or schema. For a folder that stores invoice or receipt documents, a second table is generated to capture the line items from those documents. If the folder is empty, these tables will not contain any data rows. As documents are uploaded to the folder, AppSheet automatically parses the documents and populates the corresponding tables. 9. To view the extracted folder content in the new tables, expand the table definition, and click View Data in the table header of each table that was created. To view the receipt line items, expand the table definition, and click View Data. 10. AppSheet opens a separate browser tab that contains the rows from the receipts_line_item sheet on Drive. This sheet was automatically created when the receipts folder was selected for document parsing in an earlier step. Depending on your app requirements, you can create views to let the app user view the extracted contents of the documents. Only data from documents with a document parsing status of SUCCESS will be included in the parent receipt table. Document parse attempts that generated errors or registered a low extraction confidence level are logged to the automation monitoring and audit logs. We review the different parsing statuses later in the section on monitoring document parsing. To extract the contents of a document correctly, the schemas of the tables that are created during document parsing should meet these requirements: They must match the content fields to be extracted. They cannot be altered by app editors because they are immutable. The app editor can still edit the user experience (UX) of the table views to suit their needs in the UX > Views tab in the AppSheet editor. However, they must ensure that the required fields are present in form views to successfully create entries into these tables. For more details on the generated table schemas, view the documentation on the AppSheet website. Let’s discuss how you can monitor the status of document parsing in AppSheet. To monitor the status of document parsing: In the AppSheet editor, navigate to the Manage > Monitor tab. 2. Expand the Automation Monitor section and click Launch automation monitor. This opens the automation monitor in a separate browser tab. 3. Set the time range for which you want to view the document parsing activity. You set the time range in the Settings section of the automation monitor’s main menu. You can specify a custom time range for the app you want to monitor. 4. At the bottom, click Document Parses. 5. Within the Document Parses tab, your apps are displayed in the left panel. Click the app that you want to monitor. The Parses table panel on the right displays a summary of all document parsing for the selected app and time range. In the Parses Table panel, the values in the Status column indicate whether the document parsing succeeded. You can review the details of the parse attempt by clicking the edit icon. The details might include the level of confidence of the extracted data items. The data from successful and human-reviewed document parse attempts will appear in your document-based app tables. All other status values indicate that there are issues that must be resolved before they appear in your app tables. The sample shows a receipt that was parsed with a status of POOR_QUALITY, which indicates that the content was extracted with a low confidence level. AppSheet displays the confidence level details of the data items extracted from the receipt, and reports on any missing pieces of data. You can update the extracted data and provide any missing information, or you can discard the parsed data. To update the data, fill in the empty fields in the form, correct any of the information that was extracted, and click the check icon to save your updates. After the updates are synced to the AppSheet backend, the parse status value changes to HUMAN_REVIEWED. The parsed receipt data now appears in the receipts table and is displayed in the app. Here are the different document parsing status values and a brief description of each. SUCCESS: indicates that the extraction was successful with strong confidence on the accuracy of the information extracted. POOR_QUALITY: indicates that the content was extracted with low confidence on the accuracy of the information, or that one or more critical fields (for example, the total amount on an invoice document) are missing. HUMAN_REVIEWED: indicates that the extracted content has been manually inspected, updated, and marked as complete. DISCARD: indicates that the document parse attempt has been manually discarded. EXTRACTION_ERROR: indicates that the content was not extracted due to an error typically caused by an unsupported document type or file format. QUOTA_EXCEEDED: indicates that the app creator’s quota has been exceeded for the current cycle. Document parsing will be completed when the quota is available. AppSheet lets you compile a list of files and metadata from a folder in Drive. You can then manage the list of files directly in your app, and use the file metadata in your application logic. To compile a list of files and metadata from a folder in Drive, follow the same set of steps you execute to parse a document. In the Data > Tables tab of the AppSheet editor, click New Table. In the Get data from… dialog, select Documents on Google Drive. Because the source of documents is a folder on Drive, under Folder, click Collection of files. Select the folder that contains the files that you want the app to manage, and click Select. The Source File Folder and Table Name fields are displayed and populated based on the folder that you selected. You can choose a different folder, by clicking Change. The table name defaults to the folder name. If necessary, you can edit it. Click Create Table. AppSheet extracts the contents of the folder and creates a table to store the folder’s content metadata. The table created by AppSheet when a folder is used as a data source has a default schema. The columns store the properties of files such as the filename and path, created date and time, email of the user who last modified the file, and mimeType. To view the extracted folder content metadata in the new table, click View Data in the table header. Each row in the table corresponds to a file in the folder. The table contains the following information for each file: File ID Directory path to the file Link to the file object File creation date and time Email of the user who last modified the file This table column is configured to contain sensitive information, so the column values displayed are denoted as Personal Identifiable Information (PII). MimeType of the file For document-specific content like receipts and invoices, the table’s schema depends on the type of document. When a receipt document is parsed, the table contains columns that store the receipt date, total amount, currency code, etc. When an invoice document is parsed, the table contains columns that store the invoice number, invoice amount, invoice date, etc. For document-specific content, a second table is generated, which stores the line items extracted from the document. If a folder is specified as a particular document type, each folder should contain files of the same document type, although the files can vary in mime and extension type. Folders that contain mixed document types can be used for document viewing and uploading inside applications, but cannot be automatically extracted.

### Video - [Lab: Processing Documents in AppSheet](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399600)

- [YouTube: Lab: Processing Documents in AppSheet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MXdqdchHTvQ)

In this lab on Processing Documents in AppSheet, you’ll learn how to: Parse and extract data from a receipt document stored on Drive. View, update, and verify the extracted receipt content in the AppSheet editor. Process the contents of Drive folders and view the file metadata in the AppSheet editor.

### Lab - [Processing Documents with AppSheet](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/labs/399601)

In this lab, you'll use AppSheet to extract and process the contents of documents and folders stored on your cloud provider.

- [ ] [Processing Documents with AppSheet](../labs/Processing-Documents-with-AppSheet.md)

### Quiz - [Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/quizzes/399602)

#### Quiz 1.

> [!important]
> **A bot that is triggered by an update to a table row in an AppSheet app can access the value that each column had before and after it is updated. Which two variables can be used to access the value in a column before and after the update?**
>
> - [ ] <<[_AFTER].[Column Name]>>
> - [ ] <<[_THISROW_BEFORE].[Column Name]>>
> - [ ] <<[_THISROW_AFTER].[Column Name]>>
> - [ ] <<[_BEFORE].[Column Name]>>

#### Quiz 2.

> [!important]
> **Which statements on embedded app view emails in AppSheet are correct? Select two.**
>
> - [ ] Only Gmail is supported.
> - [ ] An embedded app view email that is forwarded can still render the dynamic content in the email.
> - [ ] You can use any type of AppSheet view in an embedded app view email.
> - [ ] Dynamic content in embedded app view emails is interactive for a period of 30 days.

#### Quiz 3.

> [!important]
> **What are the requirements to receive push notifications from AppSheet? Select three.**
>
> - [ ] The user must have signed in to an AppSheet app with the same email address that is configured in the notification task.
> - [ ] A push notification can be sent to at most one device for each user email address.
> - [ ] The user email address must be translated to an AppSheet user ID.
> - [ ] The user must have signed in to the same AppSheet app that sends the notification with the email address that is configured in the notification task.
> - [ ] The app must be deployed.

#### Quiz 4.

> [!important]
> **What types of documents can be parsed with AppSheet Document AI? Select three.**
>
> - [ ] JSON file
> - [ ] W-9 forms
> - [ ] Receipt documents
> - [ ] Invoice documents
> - [ ] Legal documents

#### Quiz 5.

> [!important]
> **What are the three kinds of template variables used in AppSheet?**
>
> - [ ] Column name variables
> - [ ] Built-in variables
> - [ ] User variables
> - [ ] Expression variables
> - [ ] Automation variables

### Video - [Module Review](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399603)

- [YouTube: Module Review](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=14TThOrt4fE)

Congratulations on completing this module on Notifications and Reports in AppSheet. Let’s do a quick review. In this module, we discussed how you can use automation bots in AppSheet to send push notifications, SMS messages, and embedded app view emails from your app. You learned how to generate files and reports with AppSheet and how to extract content from folders and parse documents like receipts and invoices for your app.

## Course Review

Review of course content.

### Video - [Course Review](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/video/399604)

- [YouTube: Course Review](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WQ9CPqmYx1E)

Congratulations on completing the automation course on building no-code apps with AppSheet. Let’s review what was discussed and how you can use the knowledge gained from this course. With the knowledge gained from this course, you can now: Effectively implement business process automation for your app while recognizing common use cases. Use AppSheet automation bots, events, processes and tasks to add automation to your app. Monitor process automation with the AppSheet automation monitoring tool. Use AppSheet automation features to implement notifications, generate reports, and parse documents. Now that you have completed the automation course on building no-code apps with AppSheet, you have completed the full series on AppSheet. For more learning, we recommend browsing the AppSheet documentation on the appsheet.com website and joining the community at community.appsheet.com. Congratulations again on completing this course and we wish you all the best on your learning journey with AppSheet.

## Course Resources

PDF links to all modules

### Document - [Implementing Business Processes](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/documents/399605)

### Document - [AppSheet Automation](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/documents/399606)

### Document - [Notifications and Reports](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/449/documents/399607)

## Your Next Steps

### Badge - [Course Badge](https://www.cloudskillsboost.googleNone)
