---
id: 1029
name: 'Configure and Maintain CCAIP as an Admin'
datePublished: 2024-09-17
topics:
- Automation
type: Course
url: https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029
---

# [Configure and Maintain CCAIP as an Admin](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029)

**Description:**

Configure and Maintain CCAIP as an Admin is a course that provides end users with essential learning about the core features, functionality, reporting, and configuration information most relevant to the role. This course is most appropriate for those who perform administrative functions to support the operation of the contact center as well as analyze, troubleshoot, and configure the platform to best meet the demands of customers. While this program will review some monitoring and reporting aspects, those topics are explored in depth in the course titled, "Managing Functions and Reporting with CCAIP."

**Objectives:**

- Set up, configure, adjust, and maintain the CCAI Platform to maximize the impact of the organization’s contact center.
- Maintain the initial configuration of CCAIP’s features and functionality to fully meet the demands of consumers, seasonality, and staffing dependencies, including how to make adjustments post-implementation.
- Determine routing paths, channel configurations, agent and team assignments, and more to leverage all of CCAIP's capabilities for total contact center efficiency, optimization, and improved customer experience.

## Getting Started with CCAIP

In this module, you learn the basic navigation of the platform, how to login, and what permissions you have as the admin. You also observe a high-level navigational tour of the platform that includes an overview of the queue structure in CCAIP. 

### Document - [Getting Started with CCAIP](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508628)

### Video - [How to Navigate CCAIP](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/video/508629)

- [YouTube: How to Navigate CCAIP](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qU2ht2kaoWs)

…In this demo you learn to navigate the form and set notification…rules. For the first module in this course let's review some basic navigation tips for the portal. Keep in mind that we will do a deep dive on all of these areas of the platform and subsequent modules. As admin you will have full access to the platform settings reporting and configuration… depending on your contact center's channels the view of the platform may vary…After setting up your account and logging in you will be greeted with this dashboard view. At a quick glance you can see how many open cases there are and how many agents are in calls and chats. You can navigate to additional live dashboards by either clicking on these color tiles…or using the drop down menu at the top. If we look at the drop down menu we can visit the call chat, virtual agent, performance metrics, or queue report pages…all of which are live monitoring …Along the top you can click into agents, queues, calls connected queued completed, and chats. Connected queued completed. These are all pages for live monitoring, and each page has actions you can take from those pages. Such as monitoring calls, barging calls and more…In the campaign manager section, You can add delete and modify existing campaigns …The report section here is for historical reporting. Here you can generate reports on agents and teams calls and chats, queues campaigns or session data…The settings section is where you the admin will spend quite a bit of time. Here you can visit support center details languages and messages, operation management, users and teams virtual agent campaigns surveys, q group settings, specific channel settings, consumer management and developer settings…Again we'll review all of these sections in subsequent modules…Then you will have the call and chat adapters…You'll also notice this bell symbol here. If you click on it you can set notification…rules. You can click to add a new notification rule and then choose if you want the rule to be for any agents teams or queues in your tenant. Or a specific agent queue or team. Then you can select the metric like average CSAT, the operator and value and then the users should receive an email if the set threshold is reached in the given time frame. Click apply rules to save. At the far end of the platform here you can modify your profile and account settings by clicking on the Avatar or role title at the top of the page. You can also use this area to log out.

### Document - [Resources: Introduction to CCAIP](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508630)

## Support Center Details

In this module, you learn how to leverage the Support Center Details area of the platform to configure general settings, set general hours of operation, and create custom hours of operation at the global and queue level.          

### Video - [Support Center Details Overview](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/video/508631)

- [YouTube: Support Center Details Overview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W_snxiXSjPk)

… In this demo you learn to set supports in our detail settings. Create general hours of operation, custom hours of operation and holidays, and utilize hours of operation optimization at the global and queue level. As we go through the demo on support center details please keep in mind that your settings in view may vary depending on your configuration…Support center details can be found under the settings menu on the top navigation bar…You'll notice at the top we have two tabs overview and holidays. Let's start with the overview tab. Here at the top we have the general section. Typically this section will get set up during the implementation phase and then you won't touch it again as you maintain the system. But let's review what this section is for. The support center name is the support name displayed on your CCAIP account. The display name is the support name displayed in your mobile and web SDKs. And the support email address is the email address used when using mobile or web SDK email deflection options by default. The email address used can be set per queue using the integrated email form for mobile and web SDK's feature. Please see the documentation to learn more about that option. Next there is a toggle for displaying after hours messages in the mobile channel. If you utilize the mobile channel you can toggle this on to ensure that there is some sort of message in the support of your mobile app when agents are not online to assist consumers. Hours of Operation. This is arguably the most and part of the support center details page for your role as admin. This may be a setting that changes throughout your maintenance of system and you will want to know how to make adjustments…Hours of operation settings are designed to help you manage availability of your support center by allowing you to configure hours of operation for your queues, channels languages time of day days of the week and selected holidays. There is a user tip you should consider when it comes to hours of operation. If your contact center is not twenty four seven you may want to utilize after hours deflection to ensure consumers have a positive experience when they reach out. When a consumer initiates a call or chat outside of the designated hours for the queue, the after hours deflection is activated. This entails configuring the deflection settings to either reroute the call or chat to an alternative queue or channel or prompt the consumer to leave a message and call back during regular business hours depending on the specific configuration of the after hours deflection settings. For mobile and web channels those after hour option options are more varied. Back to hours of operation. The general hours here are for the entire contact center. You can make queue specific hours which we'll go into momentarily, but in the general hours section you should specify what times the contact center as a whole will be open…If you click the pencil icon you can modify those default hours. You can select the time zone of your operation…and the days and hours. There's an option here for twenty four hour operation. Weekdays or weekends. This is useful if your weekdays always have the same open hours and weekends always have the same open hours. And the last option is, uh days of the week list where you can specify for each day what the hours are. Lastly you can select the holidays to observe which we'll talk about more in a minute and then click save. Before we go through the holiday let's talk about custom hours of operation. Let's say your contact center is only open Monday to Friday from nine AM to five PM Eastern but you have a queue for emergencies that needs to be open twenty four seven. You can make a custom hours of operation for that one queue. To do that you'll click add hours of operation. Now we can add that custom hours of operation for the emergency…queue. We have to give it a name…And then we select the time zone And here we can select the days and hours of operation for this custom hours. So because this is the emergency line we're gonna select the twenty four hour operation option… We are gonna have no holidays observed because it's for emergencies. And now we have to select assignments. Here we can assign the entry point channel language, and or queue to apply these custom hours. The emergency line is an IVR entry point. It's a call channel…and it is for the English language… Finally we can select the queue that we want to apply these custom hours to, we can either scroll or we can start typing the queue…and then click assign…Once we've done that we can click save and those custom hours will be applied to this IVR queue. Let's navigate back to the overview page of the support center details area and toggle over to the holidays section…For holidays there will be a certain set of US holidays in your tenant as default. Those will be in the US holidays folder…With the default holidays, you can keep these holidays and you can also edit and delete them. You can add additional US holidays to this list …You can make other folders for other holidays. Let's say you have part of your contact center operation in Mexico City. You might want to make a folder that says Mexico holidays. If you do that then you'll go into the add folder section…You can name it Mexico holidays…and click add…You can go into that folder and add all the holidays you'd like to include for that…Mexico holidays folder …This add holiday option will look similar to what you already did when you were creating the custom hours you'll enter your holiday name and select the date and time …For date range, this option is useful for events that occur on the same dates every year such as Independence Day which is always on July fourth. The conditional dates…is a helpful option for events that occur on different dates each year. But follow a specific pattern, such as American Thanksgiving which is always on the fourth Thursday of November…Whichever option you choose you can select the time range for the closure…or you can select all day. This last section on the page is about messages. You can create customized voice based and text based greetings for calls and chats to let consumers know you are closed with a friendly greeting and instructions to either leave a message or call back. To do that you'll select the language from the drop down menu … You can use the text to speech feature or you can upload an audio recording…of the message. For text via web mobile SMS and WhatsApp you can write the message that you would like to appear and then click add. You should repeat this process for all the languages you need to configure this holiday messaging for your contact center…

### Document - [Resources: Support Center Details](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508632)

### Document - [Activity: Set Hours of Operation](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508633)

## Agents and Teams

This module discusses how to manage users and teams. You will learn how to adjust agent statuses, configure various agent-related settings, and modify agent messages and notifications. 

### Video - [Configuring Users, Teams, and Agent Statuses](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/video/508634)

- [YouTube: Configuring Users, Teams, and Agent Statuses](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=caMGs-jlhJc)

… In this demo you learn to manage users and teams, adjust agent status settings, and create custom agent statuses…Managing users in CCAI platform is a crucial component of your role as admin. Let's start with the most basic skills related to users which is adding them to the platform. You'll navigate to settings, users and teams, Users can be added individually…or they can be imported in bulk. When a user is added they must activate their account via an email link to complete the process. Please note that even if SSO is used to log in users are not created via SSO and must be manually added via the portal or bulk user management. Let's review how to add users individually… Click on add user and then enter the information for the user. You will type in their work email address, first name last name and then there are a couple of optional lines. If you would like an agent alias to appear in the chat adapter when the agent is helping a consumer then please type the agent alias in here. If your organization uses an ID in another system enter it here and it show up with the user account in reports…In the location section of this form this is used to dictate the default language in the adapter and the location can provide more clarity and monitoring and reporting. Locations also help the support team with troubleshooting if needed. As the admin you will be able to add more locations…This external UCaaS user box for our Microsoft Teams integration…If you are using that integration, This is where you will be adding in the SIP URI for any users that we will be connecting to via teams. You can select what role and permissions to assign to this user. A best practice here is that while you can assign multiple roles to one user it's important to remember that the role with the most permissions will be granted. For instance if you give someone a manager admin role and a manager team role, The user will see all details of all agents and queues since the manager admin role is not restricted the same way the manager team role is…If you want this user to be able to see and access and use a call or chat adapter, you must ensure that they have the agent role assigned… If this agent will be assigned to chat queues, you can choose the chat in concurrency. This is helpful if you have a senior agent who can handle a few chats at a time or when you are onboarding a new agent, you may want them to only handle one at a time. This individual setting overrides the default setting for the tenant. For the international calling button, you can decide if an agent can call all countries and numbers or restrict calling to a few specified…areas. Once you have entered all of the necessary information, you can click add…Another best practice about adding users would be that if are just adding, let's say one to five users the individual adding may take less time than bulk import. Use bulk upload when you are making a change to large groups of users or adding and deactivating large groups of users. Many organizations like to use bulk user management. If you navigate to that tab here at the top, You can click the upload users button This will prompt you to download the template to fill out a CS V file. You can edit the template with the necessary information and then upload it here. When you're ready click process…When using bulk user management you need to ensure you are always downloading the most recent version of the template This is because the template will all teams and or custom roles that perhaps were created since the last use to be part of the template or you will get an error trying to upload…Now once you have added users to the platform, you can create teams. These teams could group users who are skilled for a particular function, users who are all in a certain location, maybe they work a certain shift etcetera. These teams can be assigned to call and chat queues instead of you or the manager always having to assign users individually. Each team usually has agents and at least one team manager. When a user assigned as a team manager has the manager role assigned or specific permissions, these team managers would have access to their team's queue assigned que priority, monitoring agent data that's team specific, live monitoring for channels associated with the queues that the team is assigned to, and historical reports for the team members and the assigned queues for the team. Organizing users into teams team managers facilitates easier queue assignments and more granular monitoring and reporting and queue settings access…Another thing to note is that with teams you can have a hierarchy where the manager at the top level team can see all the details and teams under that hierarchy…So a manager in a leaf team can see any details for teams under that leaf queue. Here's how to create a team. Scroll down to the team section and click add a team. Assign it a team name and click add …Once you've done that you can scroll to find that team you just created…If you click on it here is where you can add agents and team managers …When you have a team with agents already assigned and set up…you can also…remove agents from the team…here in this area…Let's shift gears to talk about agent statuses. Agent statuses serve as a means to track the time spent by agents on various tasks…Making them available for incoming calls and chats and playing a significant role in reporting. You can use our default statuses as well as create customized statuses to align with your various processes and needs. Agent statuses can help optimize resource utilization improve service levels and enhance the overall consumer experience…Here are a few agent status details. With the exception of available and in chat in call all default in custom statuses will be considered unavailable states so calls and chats will not be routed to agents while in those statuses…The system maintains your last status when putting the computer to sleep or logging out in most cases the status agents were in will be saved when they come back to their computer to log in. And with changing statuses this feature offers flexible configuration options based on your preferences as admin. Agents can change their status while they are not engaged in a call or chat. Additionally if permitted agents can choose which status to enter after ending their current call or chat. You can restrict certain statuses to ensure agents select appropriate options…First you need to know how to see the default statuses that are available. This is in the technical documentation, but it's also in the platform. If you navigate to settings, operation management and scroll to the agent status …section Click on the view agent status list, the status name, type and actions are all in this chart. The default options will appear at the top and your customized options will be towards the bottom. For the default statuses if you click on edit, the only thing you can change is to restrict the agent status. This setting allows you to limit certain roles from assigning specific agent statuses to themselves or others. This allows for more customization of which user roles have access to a status …Let's practice adding a custom status. You will click add status and then create a status name…Give it a color …And decide if you want to restrict it and if you want to allow calls to break through the agent status. This option allows incoming calls and chats to be routed to agents even when they are in a specific status such as unavailable. This feature provides greater flexibility in managing call routing and agent availability. It's an option for some default and system statuses such as unavailable break, special task meal missed call missed chat, in chat wrap up exceeded, and any custom status …So here is you are making your custom status You can decide if you still want calls and chats to break through…Now you can go back to the agent status section in operation management to configure a few more options … These may be settings you establish in the project and did not change again but they could be ones you decide to change if needed So let's review. When it comes to agent status on login you can select the option best aligns to your agent expectations. It could be the same status before they logged out or it could be a specific status. We would caution you again selecting available as their status right upon login because agents may log in at the start of their work day but they also may be checking email responding to internal messages completing other role associated tasks, etc… The stop receiving new calls and chat section is often crucial in making sure agents are able to take scheduled breaks. Do you want to allow agents to stop receiving calls and chats and set their next status? This will only apply to agents who are actively handling a call or chat session and the next status will be applied after wrap up…This option is useful for agents who need to take a scheduled lunch or break and want to make sure no other calls come in before they can switch to lunch or break. Many states in the US have strict laws about how many hours an agent can work without a scheduled break or lunch and this helps with labor compliance. Under transfers, you can decide if you would like to enable calls and chat transfers to all logged in agents whether they are available or not. Under availability preferences, this option may come in handy for users who are on the go such as supervisors on the warehouse floor, doctors traveling nurses, insurance reps traveling to do quotes, and more. You can allow those users to select to receive calls on their mobile phone instead of the platform or CRM which they would need a computer to access…Finally you can make the global determination here about agent status breakthrough. Whatever configuration options you select, be sure to push the save button…

### Video - [Agent Settings](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/video/508635)

- [YouTube: Agent Settings](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S6TEfS_M81k)

… In this demo you learn to configure localization settings, modify agent call messages and notifications, and assign agents and teams to queues. While agents can choose from a list of supported languages and the adapters, you as admin can assign the default agent adapter languages based on the agent's location. You will manage all locations and each location will have an assigned language. Ultimately users can override this location based language setting…Even though the call and chat adapter controls will appear in the language selected, there are certain things that will not change no matter what language selected such as agent statuses, queue names and incoming outgoing call or chat sessions will not be translated, or impacted in any way. If you are using the chat adapter translation feature, we'll discuss that in a later module… Some customers like to use localization to manage a BPO or physical location that they are working at. For example if there is a BPO in Spain and in the UK, you could have two locations called Spain BPO with language set to Spanish and one called UK BPO with language set to English …To add a new location, go to settings…operation management… and then scroll to localization…Click manage location setting…and then click to add location. Enter the location name…and then select the language …And click save…You can also edit or delete existing languages here in this location…Now if we want to assign a specific agent to this new Madrid location, we can go to settings users and teams…search for the agent we would like to assign to this location and click edit user. And then here for location, we can select Madrid…and then update. You can also make these same types of changes and updates in the bulk upload tool. You as the admin are able to modify certain settings for the agent call and chat messages and notifications…If you navigate to the call section under settings …and scroll to the agent call messages and notifications section. You will see all the settings you can modify. You could decide to use whisper for calls which means agents will hear an audible message that says call type into queue name. You can determine the speed of that message. You could also enable a countdown for which mean an audible message to the agent will count down seconds until the caller is live on the phone. Agents will also see a down screen in the agent adapter when this option is enabled. Then you can select the tone you would like to use for notifications…The frequency …and whether or not you would like to enable SMS notifications…and then click save. As a best practice, audible alerts are helpful if the agent has their adapter minimized because they are entering account information or notes from a previous case. Popups can serve the same purpose. If an agent is not staring at their adapter for the entire time they're working, Both of these cues can be helpful in ensuring agents get to the consumers as quickly as possible. One last note about agent call messages and notifications, many customers like to upload their own custom tone that is either brand or company specific or potentially is a certain type of tone or volume…that they have found to be successful for their agents …Let's practice assigning agents and teams to queues…We will navigate to settings…queue…IVR. Let's go to our first queue which is the general support queue. Here we will see the channel settings section and the instant voice call for call type. We can see here that virtual agents are not assigned to this queue but human agents are and we have two agents assigned. If we edit the human agent assignment…We can either type a name of another agent …And it will start to populate… We can also type in the teams and add that way instead of by individual agent …Once we have made our assignments, we can click save…For all monitoring and reporting capabilities related to agents and teams, please see the CCAI platform manager course in Google Cloud Skills Boost titled manage functions and reporting with CCAIP…

### Document - [Activity: Create a Custom Status](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508636)

### Document - [Activity: Add an Agent](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508637)

### Document - [Activity: Add Location for Localization](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508638)

### Document - [Resources: Agent Settings in CCAIP](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508639)

## Calls

This module explores the call journey and all the settings, configuration options, and management involved in your role as admin when it comes to the CCAIP call channel.   

### Document - [The Caller's Journey](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508640)

### Document - [Call Routing at CCAIP: A User Guide](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508641)

### Video - [Call Routing with CCAIP](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/video/508642)

- [YouTube: Call Routing with CCAIP](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5JpPDyPBOWQ)

… In this demo you learn to configure settings that leverage CCAI Platform's call routing methodology…In the first resource for this module, you saw this graphic about the contact center AI platform's call journey. For this video we'll be discussing the pre call stage of the journey which focuses on routing. Setting up the correct call configuration is crucial as an admin to help your team and company thrive. Thoughtful configuration ensures that calls are flowing efficiently. Agents are being utilized properly and the consumer's experience is top tier…Throughout this module we will consider the call journey from origin to completion. And so for this video it makes the most sense that first part of the call journey begins with the routing decisions. While these settings are determined in the implementation phase of customer onboarding, and are rarely modified again throughout the customer life cycle. This information is crucial for your role…The settings may impact how you assign agents and teams to queues onboard new employees for your contact center coach existing employees make modifications based on volume, modify configuration options and settings to maximize resources analyze reporting data and more…Establishing a powerful queue structure and routing system creates exceptional consumer experiences…with state of the art routing in CCAI Platform it can help decrease wait times assist agent productivity and improve CSAT scores …Beyond what is covered in this video there are additional options in CCAIP regarding routing including AI driven routing which leverages virtual agents. These options are best discussed with your implementation team at the time of your project build. If you did not read the call routing user guide resource provided in this module please go back and review that prior to watching the rest of this demo…CCAIP utilizes intelligent routing systems that disperse calls improve reporting and shorten wait times for consumers. The standard routing options are multicast, Deltacast, auto answer, cascade groups , percent allocation groups and direct access points. We'll also be discussing queue priority and automatic redirection. Let's get started…Multicast is the default routing configuration for calls. Multicast routes calls to all available agents who are assigned to the queue when a caller comes in to the contact center. All agents have an equal opportunity to answer and the quickest to respond will get the call If other agents attempt to answer the call a mess will appear on the adapter that says no worries It looks like someone else picked up. Multicast shortens pickup times by taking out the or a few seconds it might take to find an agent who will pick up the call, and it can be configured globally for the entire contact center or at the queue level…Right now on the platform we're under settings operation management, and we are in the routing section. You can see here under the call routing section, you can enable multicast for call routing. If this is the global routing decision you would like to have for the entire contact center, you can select multicast and then click save. Now even if this is your global selection for call routing, you can make variations within the queues to route the way you would like. But if you want to use multicast…at the global level , this is where you need to make that determination. If we navigate back…to the top dashboard…to…settings , Queue, IVR, and we click on one of our queues…we can do queue level decisions around routing within these settings. Here we can see the routing section and right now we notice that for call routing it is defaulting to those global settings…If we click configure…you can choose multicast…and then click save. Deltacast is the more commonly utilized routing option. It's an intelligent routing system that disperses calls and shortens wait times. Deltacast can be enabled at the global or queue level. This type of routing is when an incoming session is routed to an available agent with the longest duration. Since they last ended a session…To configure Deltacast, we go back to operation management to that same section titled call routing…Now we can select Deltacast for our call routing and we have other settings we have to determine. The first is the Deltacast count. We can decide how many times to continue to Deltacast a call to a single distinct agent before multicasting it to the rest of the agents assigned to you. Then we have Deltacast time out for calls. How much time do you want to offer the call to all assigned agents if the available agent does not pick up within how many seconds. For missed call threshold, this is how many calls you want an agent to miss…before they go into the missed call status. So maybe an agent has forgotten to put themselves into break or meal time status. And as a result, they have missed calls. We want to move them into that missed call status so they do not continue to be offered calls that are being routed to their queue. So this number here is how you can determine how many calls you'll allow to go to them before they get pushed into this status…The unresponsive threshold is similar except this is more about not being able to get to the agent at all. So this could be indicative of a network issue, or…an agent error. And this would be how many calls…they're offered before it moves them into a response. For the cascade timer selection…this is for a different type of routing that we'll talk about momentarily but this is where you can decide if you want to skip the cascade group timer when agents are not available in the cascade group. This would just move a call quicker to other agents who might be available. Once you have made your configuration options, you can click save routing. You must click save routing before leaving operation management in order for these setting adjustments to take effect. Delta Cas can also be enabled at the queue level just like multicast so if we navigate back to… settings, Queue…IVR, and that first Queue we looked at before We'll scroll again to that call routing section and we see it is defaulting to the global configuration right now but we can modify it. We may decide that we want Deltacast for this queue but maybe our decisions are different than what we looked at in operation management for the global contact center settings, and here we can make those adjustments. Whatever adjustments are made remember to push save…Our next routing topic is auto answer…Auto answer connects calls to agents without agents clicking to manually pick up It applies to inbound calls and transfers. This can be enabled at the global or queue level. If it is off globally then individual queues cannot use this feature. And it's important to know that with the auto answer it cannot be enabled unless Deltacast is used. If we navigate to settings, call and scroll to this auto answer section, we can toggle the button to on in order to enable auto answer globally …But it can also be enabled and disabled at the queue level. If we navigate to…settings, Queue, IVR …We can scroll within those queue settings to get to the auto answer section … And we can decide if we want auto answer to be on or off for this queue. If you decide to use auto answer, also consider preventing agents from getting auto answer calls before they are ready. You can preset a default status for agents who have just logged in to avoid this from happening. If you go to settings, operation management and scroll to the agent status …section. You can select from either the last status before a log out or set a default status that will be turned on when they log in. So they aren't immediately hit with a call on auto answer the second they log in for the day. Whatever selection you make here please push save. Cascade groups, another routing option allows multiple sets of teams or agents to answer calls for a specific queue. It also allows for tiered routing by notifying group one first and then including the next groups sequentially. This means if your call isn't answered by one agent or group of agents you can set up a custom routing configuration to make sure it's taken care of by the right agent. Let's review how to configure cascade groups. Here in operation management under the general settings, towards the bottom we have a subsection called group settings. We'll discuss percent allocation groups momentarily but for now let's focus on cascade groups. Depending on the setup of your contact center this feature could help control the flow of calls between the agents. So if your contact center has tiers of agents such as top tier middle tier and bottom with top tier being the most experienced, we may want to route calls to that top tier And in order for those calls to go to the top tier of agents first, we have to use cascade groups or percent allocation groups which is why they're grouped here together but right now we're focused on cascade groups…Here we can decide how long to give the first cascade group to respond before we offer it to the cascade group. As the name suggests this feature will make calls waterfall down to the next tier should they not be answered in this allotted time. Whatever setting you make here you must click save. Now that we know how to set the global setting, let's go to the queues. Again we'll navigate to settings, Queue IVR…We know cascade groups are all about agent assignments so we have to go to edit human agent assignments…Right now we only have two agents assigned to this queue and therefore only one cascade group. But if we want to add some cascade groups we can click add new cascade group…and we can enter agent or team names we want to assign to that group and then click save. We can do this as many times as needed to ensure the queue is properly covered for consumers. As an example, for cascade groups, let's say these agents these two agents are in tier one. And they're assigned to cascade group one as we can see. They will both have equal opportunity to answer the call. Depending on the settings we have at operation management which right now it's set to ten. So if after ten seconds the call isn't answered it will cascade into cascade group two or the tier two of agents. This will continue down your different tiers of agents which can be changed or edited here at any time. It's important to note that if someone in tier one does not respond within the amount of time and the call has moved down to the next tier, The agents in tier one also still have the opportunity to pick up the call This is true for every time the call moves down. This expands the number of agents that would be able to see and pick up this call as it moves down your tiers. Now on to percent allocation groups. These groups allow you to specify the percentage of calls that each group assigned to a queue will receive. This type of routing is set on a per queue basis and is accessible through the assign agent setup page. Back under operation management here in the video under group settings, if you want to leverage percent allocations, you will need to check this box. Then you will decide how many seconds should pass before a call is offered to all groups. For example if you would like your tier one group agents to field sixty percent of all calls that come into that contact center queue setting the percent allocation will determine the number of seconds those agents to pick up the call. If for any reason the call is not picked up within the number of specified seconds the call will fall to the next group of agents who should get forty percent of the calls…Back under operation management in the group settings, If you want to leverage percent allocations, you will need to check this box, then you will decide how many seconds should pass before a call is offered to all groups. For example, if you would like your tier one group of agents to field sixty percent of all calls that come into a particular queue, set this threshold…to determine the number of seconds those agents have to pick up the call before it is offered to the next tier. If for any reason the call is not picked up within the number of seconds it will fall to the next tier of agents who should get let's say forty percent of the rest of the calls…After making any setting changes be sure to click this large blue button. Otherwise new changes you make will not be applied. Now we can navigate two queues again and specify who should be assigned for the percent allocation. Just a reminder the percent allocation is set on a per queue basis So if we want to leverage this type of routing it's imperative we configure at the queue level. Go to settings, queue, IVR…the queue we want to modify, and then click edit human agent assignments…Right now we're leveraging cascade groups for this queue but let's switch to percent allocation. We can see that the two groups that we were using for cascade group , transfer over when we click percent allocation group. Now we just have to determine the percentage allocated to each group, and then click save …On to direct access points, direct access points or DAP enable companies to automatically connect consumers to a specific queue. Rather than forcing consumers through a long IVR tree debt may the process faster and can provide a more delightful experience…The available DAP types are phone number CRM user segment and API response. To configure any direct access point this must be done here at the queue level. In the queue settings, you must scroll to access point …and click create direct access point When that opens, you can decide what type of access point you want to configure. Based on the type you select the rest of the options in this window will change. For demo purposes, let's select support phone number. You must give the access point a name and type in the support phone number. Then you will decide on the greeting message. In fact you can either type the message here that will be text to speech for callers or you can upload an audio recording that you would like to play and click create. To learn more about different types of direct access points including API direct access points for IVR calls, please see the technical support documentation …There are a couple of other features that can impact call routing. Queue priority is one of them. The Queue priority feature enables admins to find the priority value of a selected queue. Call sessions from higher priority queues will be routed to available agents first. You can also enable prioritization by wait time where the priority of a given session will automatically increase based on wait time until the session has reached the highest available priority. To enable this feature you will navigate to settings operation management and scroll to this queue priority section. You will turn the cue priority toggle to on. Now you will need to decide if you want to increase priority based on call and of course you can do chat wait time, and then save. Then we'll navigate to settings…queue, IVR and click on the queue we want to modify, and we will scroll to queue priority…We can turn that on, and then we can determine the priority of the queue on a spectrum and push save. The last routing feature covered in this video is automatic redirection. This feature is primarily a deflection but because it can impact routing will identify how to enable it. Automatic redirection is a way to configure cues so the caller could either be routed to…an available agent…to…a particular queue to a different phone number , a voicemail…they might hear a message or have an outbound SIP transfer. This automatic redirection can be leveraged for many situations but here's an example. Let's say it's after the holiday season and there are many consumers reaching out to retail company ABC. These consumers want to return or exchange the gifts they got for the holidays, but they need to complete a form online in order to do so instead of having live agents assigned to this queue and taking the many phone calls that are coming in, the admin can go in and set an automatic redirection to be a message that states to process your return or exchange please visit companyabc.com/returns to submit your request. Then when a caller comes in and selects the returns and exchanges queue, they will hear this message.

### Video - [The CCAIP Call Journey (Part 1)](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/video/508643)

- [YouTube: The CCAIP Call Journey (Part 1)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZRyFOQCzhfE)

… In this demo you learn to add verify and assign phone numbers to various channels and queues, customize certain call behaviors and operation manager and enable priority user segments …In the beginning of the module you saw this graphic and learned that throughout the module we would cover the call journey from pre call to post call. In the first video we covered those pre call steps which really revolved around routing. And now in this video we'll be talking about the calling in portion so how to connect with the…consumers. We'll discuss telephony and settings for various call behaviors, which will help create a seamless user experience before the consumers ever even reach out. After considering your routing options and implementing the structure that works best for your contact center, The next phase of the call journey to consider would be all the additional settings at your disposal so you can enable the best consumer experience possible. These settings will mostly pertain to everything that happens prior to a consumer picking up their phone to dial. The first and most important step to ensuring you have calls enabled in your CCAI platform tenant. To do that you will navigate to settings call …and toggle this use calls switch to on. Now we cannot leverage a channel without phone numbers. Phone numbers are one of the most important pieces when it comes to your contact center. This is a crucial phase of the implementation project when you first on board as a CCAI platform customer, but as the admin you may have to monitor your phone numbers or make adjustments over time and should know this section here quite well. Whenever your tenant is set up there will be at least one phone number already attached to the tenant. This number can be used for testing before we have more numbers. Let's consider outbound numbers first. If you need to place an outbound call for any reason, you have to have an outbound number. Like you see here. It is possible to have multiple outbound numbers but you need to have a default one. The outbound number is seen in this section and it will always appear when you dial out. In the same area we can click to view our phone number management. Selecting phone number management will display all the outbound numbers you can use and if they are verified…and what they are verified for. If you have an unverified number in any of the boxes this is likely a number you do not own. To set a different number as the global number select the pen icon…next to it…and then check the box that says set as global number selecting save confirm this as the new global number. Here you can see different numbers that are assigned to your tenants or that you have added to your tenants. You can also see which numbers are verified for calls. On this page you can also…verify your numbers, add new numbers, One thing to note is that when you set up a new number, you have those same options where you can set it as the global or you can also restrict it to certain country codes area codes or phone numbers only. If you check that box a drop down will display…that will give you options to allow or deny calling all countries area codes and phone numbers, and you can also add rules. You can search your numbers here at the top and also…search labels or assigned queues, you can…select all verify and delete all from this phone number management page. Once we have the numbers here that we need for calling we can assign them to queues. If we go to settings, queue…IVR …we can assign…outbound numbers … In this section of the queue settings for outbound phone numbers, we can select the number we would like and then click save. It's worth noting that if outbound numbers are set for a top level queue such as returns. All sub queues will acquire the same number setting unless specific settings for the sub queue are made. Now once this is assigned if an agent is assigned to this queue and they click the dial option in the adapter, They will now see a drop down of the default global outbound number as well as any other outbound numbers which are associated with the queues to which they are assigned. CCAI platform supports BYOC…or bring your own carrier. This empowers you use voice support phone numbers from the telephony provider of your choice… with BYOC enabled…You can keep your existing phone number and route support calls to CCAIP through one of our carrier SIP trunks. You can leverage this by going to settings, developer settings and then this bring your own carrier section…If you toggle this to on, you then need to specify the country, trunk,, and or origination…UI, depending on your carrier and click save…One final note on telephony, if CCAIP…or an implementation partner configured a number for your contact center tenant , the number will default routing to the top of the queues. If you have multiple languages numbers will default to the language selection message. For even more information about phone numbers for your contact center , please see the technical support documentation. After the telephony decisions which determine how your callers will start the journey, let's examine the global call settings that you should configure for this pre call stage. Will start in operation management. The CRM section is important but will most likely be set in your implementation project. The setting decisions here should be made in conjunction with your implementation partner or provider. The important setup for CRM happens in developer settings…But for the purpose of this module we won't dig into too many details on how to configure that since Again your implementation should take care of it is important to note with CRM that CCAIP is able to integrate with many different CRMs and it is a seamless integration. The adapters will be embedded in the CRM and all of your consumer data will be stored there as well. This allows agents to have history of each consumer when they communicate with them to create the ultimate user experience…Here under CRM record creation details, you can make decisions about how those records will function within your CRM…flexible accounts and record assignments…customer abandoned details CRM access, and then under group settings is that routing information about percent allocation and cascades Whatever settings you decide, be sure to push save. To recap our call journey so far we've decided how routing will work in our contact center We've set up the appropriate numbers that can be used for calls whether inbound or outbound. We've made decisions about how those calls will be utilized in the CRM. And now we can decide what the metrics should be when we get those calls. Target metrics is our next section for discussion. These metrics will impact calls because you can set the target session CSAT and service level target and more. These metrics are here for you to modify as needed whenever you need to. As far as best practice goes these metrics are so specific to each customer and what's important to them We generally advise if you aren't sure what to set or don't currently track them in any way to leave them at the default especially SLA which typically is eighty twenty, and then track them for the first quarter of your launch and make adjustments after you have a chance to analyze the data…If we continue to scroll in operation management we will see priority user segments. These can also impact the early part of the call journey. It's a simple way to give VIP another high value contact efficient service they expect by placing them at the front of the queue. When a consumer initiates a call session, CCAIP checks for a contact record in the CRM. If the contact is marked as a priority user the consumer goes to the top of any queue they select. Please see the technical documentation to leverage this feature. There are other global settings you should know about that will ultimately find the user experience before they ever pick up the phone, and they can be found under…settings, call…With call details you can decide how you would like call recordings to work in your contact center. You can enable or disable call recording entirely by checking this box. If you enable like it is now you can then decide if you want to cord callback outbound calls. Agent initiated outbound calls, including redaction, and more. For these two subheadings here recording separation and recording message sequence. With recording separation this enables you to choose whether to receive call recordings for each call segment rather than a single file. If you select none you will receive call recordings as a single file. The ability to keep separate call records for each conversation segment allows for more flexible call analysis and potentially more efficient issue resolution. Better record analysis allows you to determine specific portions of the conversation where issues may have occurred, allowing you to provide more targeted training and coaching to your agent…Recording message sequence, this section allows you to specify the order in which your user permission and call recording messages are played for consumer. For example, since outbound calls do not have an introduction message, you can have the call recording play for consumers before the consent to record user permission so they know who is calling call recording. This section will be enabled if you…check record callback outbound calls. Enable call recording and play call recording message. Once you have made those selections you can now change the sequence. There are time settings here that you can decide on for scheduled call countdowns scheduled call expiration…unanswered call expiration and unanswered transferred call expiration. With the first two the recommendations will vary based on your contact center and volume. The idea would be to leave enough time for agents to handle as much inbound volume as they can and not have them reserved for too long to make that scheduled call. For example if the scheduled call assignment happens ten minutes before the schedule call but the average call time for the consumer calls are three minutes. Well then the agent could have taken three other calls in that time they were reserved to make the scheduled call. But on the flip side if calls on average take about fifteen minutes you might want to set that threshold to a higher number so that agents aren't stuck in other calls at the time the scheduled call is needed. If that happens you get into the second setting expiration. If the system can't assign an agent because they are all on calls or they walk away without going into unavailable status, we advise you to keep this at default for now and adjust later if you feel it's an issue. With these last two settings these will ultimately kick your interactions out of queue. So generally we would advise you to monitor tour it for a bit and then make adjustments based on the volume and whether things such as transferred calls are not getting answered. For this call history checkbox you can decide if you want to enable agents to view previously completed calls. This is ultimately a very specific customer to customer decision. Some customers don't want agents having access to previous calls. For example a customer using BPOs may not want the agents to have access to details post call …A reason to include the call history would be if agents regularly need to reach back out to consumers to follow-up on anything they could quickly access the ticket and call the consumer back. And if you as the admin decide to allow ANI storage, agents can call the consumer back directly from the adapter…For the hold time counter…We do recommend checking this box so agents can see how long they have had a consumer on hold during an interaction. We want agents to track this so that they can get back to consumers as quickly as possible and meet hold time expectations…There are a few more settings here that impact this part of the call journey. Fallback IVR navigation is for you to decide what happens when a consumer does not make an IVR menu selection. How many times do you want the IVR menu to play? And after that what do you want to happen? We typically recommend to end the call with no menu selection…IVR end user dial zero behavior when a consumer pushes zero on the call what do you want to happen? We typically recommend dial zero to do nothing …For this last part of the call details, section on the call settings page you must decide on the custom callback number option. With this you can allow a consumer to leave custom callback phone number and decide how many times to let them retry to leave that number before ending the call. For instance let's say the consumer called on their work phone but they would like to get a callback on their cell phone. This would be the spot to enable that functionality. Whatever settings you configure, please press save.

### Document - [Resources: Call Settings](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508644)

### Video - [The CCAIP Call Journey (Part 2)](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/video/508645)

- [YouTube: The CCAIP Call Journey (Part 2)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vYcEQ9VzMxY)

… In this demo you learn to manage all deflect techniques for calls, modify messages for calls, configure wrap up settings and create disposition codes, select caller announcement settings, and build a queue menu structure for the IVR channel and configure wrap up settings and create disposition codes. Now that you have your routing decisions made your phone number is set up in various settings configured that apply to the early part of the caller journey, you're ready to define the rest of the journey which will be what happens in calls and after calls. For the first part of this video we'll talk about settings and configuration options that impact the early part of the in call process. Precession options caller announcements call mess…and then we'll move to ultimately what is most defining for your collar journey which is queue setup. We'll end with a few other settings and features that will shape how your customers…interact with your contact center in a call. Finally we will set up the configuration…for a few settings that impact the end of the call such as wrap up disposition codes notes and CSAT. This section can be found under settings call. Ultimately these global collar settings will impact what happens during the consumer interaction. For instance, you can decide the interval in which callers will hear estimated wait time. You can either enable or disable over capacity deflect which will impact the queue level options. These two settings, the announcement, and interval and over capacity deflection timing must the same. The deflection is inherited from the announcements, as you can see here…When the deflection is enabled, based on the threshold we've set a call that has been in queue for over three minutes, will follow the overcapacity deflect we have set for that particular queue. When it comes to the estimated wait time section here, We can announce the wait time to callers. This amount is also inherited from our previous setting but we can decide on that estimated wait time count, which would be at every cycle or perhaps a set amount of times …With this scheduled calls checkbox you can allow calls to only be scheduled for the current hours of operation…You can also enable after hour deflection…and you can enable CSAT after calls for all IVR calls. If you enable this it would say something like please stay on after the agent has assisted you to leave a review or something along those lines. We will talk more about CSAT in a bit. If we keep scrolling in this same section, we get to more settings for IVR calls related to our deflection options. These are again the global settings. So if we have after hours reflection enabled. Here is where we can decide what that deflection should be. Right now it's set for message only which means we could have a message that says, Oh you've caught us after hours Please contact us again tomorrow between the hours of nine am to five pm eastern…And with over capacity , right now we have voice mail and callback options selected. So if the capacity threshold is met let's say based on the settings we already looked at a caller has been waiting in queue for longer than three minutes. They will hear options to leave a voicemail, limit one voicemail per queue, or get a callback, which is again limited to one callback per queue. There's no baseline recommendations on these settings because they will vary greatly for each contact center, but as admin these settings will be quite important in defining how your collars enter, existent and exit their contact center interaction. Whatever you decide, click save. All of these deflection type settings can be mod fied at the queue level. Let's go there now. If we click on settings…Queue… IVR, you can then click on the queue to modify. You can decide that you want your caller announcements to be different than what is configured at the global level. If you click on configure…you can potentially change this queue's announcement intervals and turn on the estimated wait time and decide on the announcement count. You could even customize the estimated wait time message in this spot or upload an audio recording. Whatever changes you make at the queue level for caller announcements…click save. For the deflections, you can turn custom after hours deflection on or off…If it's on you could have a different…message or queue navigation or phone number or voice mail that will be the deflection for this specific queue. You can also…enable…the overcapacity deflection at the queue level, which could be a message, a redirect to a different queue, a phone number, voicemail, callback or keep waiting option…We talked about automatic redirection within the routing video but here again we can modify this per queue. We'll discuss the rest of the queue level settings…in a bit. There are more settings to know about that happen at the beginning of the in call interaction and these can be found under settings, languages and messages. Right now we'll focus on English here But for each language queue you utilize in your contact center you can customize the messages accordingly. Most of these messages play in the early part of the consumer contact or right at the end. The first message we can modify here is the first one they'll hear which will say for English push one, for Spanish, push two. If you don't have another language queue this message will obviously not need to be configured… If we scroll past the web and mobile messages because right now we're talking about the caller journey, we can get to the audible messages section. And here again, for ease of use we can click between the languages we want to modify And right now we are focused on English. The call messages start with the connecting message. Record a call message and record an outbound call message. The connecting message might be please hold while your call connects. For record a call message it might say please note this call will be recorded for quality assurance, and then a similar message for the outbound call message. You can upload an audio recording for these if you do not want to have it be the call. Then you can set up your weight music and hold music. Please note that many of these settings can be customized at the queue level which we'll talk about short…as you scroll, you will see many different messages to configure…All of these can be entered as text to speech, which as you can see is the option with these right now. Or you can decide to upload a custom audio recording for each message. There's no best practice here beyond just adding messages in a way that suits your preferences whether that's the text to speech option or something custom that could be potentially brand specific or using a voice actor, it's up to you. There are also custom callback messages here. Whatever configuration you choose…press save. We have spoken at length about the universal call settings available in operation management languages and messages and call. And even though we have visited this queue area many times. Now we can build out the queues and review any queue level settings we haven't covered already. As we can consider where we are in the caller journey it's in this initial reach out phase of the in call process. During implementation your queues will be designed in tandem with your implementation partner, but over time as the admin you may want to modify queues to suit the needs of your consumers. Let's practice how to configure and maintain the queue structure. To begin building our queue we need to set up the queue menu structure that you see here on this part of the screen. This menu means that when a caller reaches out they will hear these options and select the number on their phone according to the queue they would like to reach. For instance it will say for general support, push one. For returns, push two. But how do we create this menu? Next to the words menu structure you'll see edit with a pencil. If we click that we can go in and modify the menu structure. These parent queues in blue are called top level queues. For this example, we will call our top level queue returns. We're gonna add another queue to this area. In order to do that we are going to press enter. When this shows up it's added to the sub queue area. But we can push tab. It will become another sub queue or leaf queue in this pairing queue or top level queue of returns. Let's say we want to create another…parent queue or top level queue. Whatever spot we want that to be we can click on the parent level and do the same thing again where we push enter…and that new item will appear. And we can enter the name and move it as needed…We can also delete the queues by clicking the x button…and we can also move them by grabbing the grid and sliding them to where we need them to be…You can repeat this process in the IVR menu structure area to customize your queue structure so your consumers have the best experience. When you're done making changes you select the done button to save…Now , We did modify our q structure there a little bit by adding the sub q three And as you can see it is in a peach color. To indicate that it is not fully set up and ready for consumers. This is a helpful indicator for you to note that you need to go into that queue and make changes in order to have it ready for consumers. For now I want to delete this queue because I might not be ready to set it up so I'm gonna go back into queue menu structure, and I'm going to delete that sub queue that I created…And then I'll navigate back…and continue with my queue setup. In this menu structure area when we haven't selected a queue yet and it's still on this blue section of menu structure. We see here we can modify the IVR Queue menu readout. That might be a text to speech, or we could customize it with a file…This is the message consumers will hear when they call the main contact center number. So if you wanted to do a customized record file you could say something like thanks for calling Bob's yoga studio. We are happy to assist you today Please listen carefully to the following options. And then again it would say for general support press one. Under the individual queues when we click on a queue to modify, we've reviewed many of the queue level settings available to you but let's take time now to go through the other options you have. We've talked about how to assign agents…You can also see that if your contact center is using virtual agents this will be where you assign those virtual agents at the queue level. A note on human agent and virtual agent assignments…if we go to Queue 2 for returns…We will see that we don't have an option to assign human agents to this queue because it is not the end queue. That means we have to assign agents to these subcues which is ultimately where the consumer will end up Right They're not going to end up here in q two at returns. But you will see that we can assign a virtual agent here. The virtual agent could be used to help route calls to the correct subcues so you can assign those even if it's not the end queue. Let's go back to our general support queue We discussed color announcements…and over capacity , and after hours deflection automatic redirection, we talked about agent status breakthrough in our agent module, but you can configure and toggle agent status breakthrough on or off…at the queue level…Custom fallback IVR navigation can also be modified at the queue level if it is enabled at the global level …We'll be talking about agent assist in a later module but just know that you can modify it at the queue level here… This will allow transfers to this queue by default this is always turned on. We talked about routing target metrics. You can modify at the queue level. If you want to change what the service level target is at the queue you can enter those modifications here and push save…You have your blended and pre session SMS options. We'll talk more about these options in our SMS module Full … And as mentioned previously you can modify we music or hold music at the queue level. This can be helpful if you want to advertise an ongoing sale or potentially advertise a new app or website that might help consumers with whatever their question could be There's a lot of different ways you can utilize the weight music and hold music to promote your brand. So consider modifying this at the queue level as it is helpful for your contact center. And even though wrap up is something we'll discuss here in a little bit you can modify that at the queue level as well. Let's now imagine the rest of the in call experience and what happens at the end of the caller journey. The consumer has dialed in selected the correct queue and connected with an agent We covered a lot of those settings. But now what do you is the admin want to have access to during that or what do you want your supervisors to have access to? Perhaps one major feature you would want to utilize would be barge. This is under settings operation management. This feature will allow you or supervisors to barge into any of the agent's ongoing calls to join or take over the conversation at any time. You can initiate Barge for monitoring pages and you can see if another supervisor or admin has already burst in on the call. If the supervisor or admin is only joining the call for a short period of time, they can also leave the call and let the agent continue to handle the call without the supervisor. You as the admin can also configure which roles have access to barge. If you would like to use it toggle this to on and click save. Voice mail could be an option for the in caller post call experience This could be utilized once the consumer has reached out to what particular queue or voice mail is being leveraged as a deflection technique or just a routing decision. The most common use case would be for over capacity after hours or automatic redirection. If it is enabled this call settings section will be important again we're under settings call. You will want to designate how long agents have to process a voicemail, if they can forward the voicemail, and if they can access…past voicemails that they process. Let's practice enabling voicemail at the queue level. We will go back to settings…Queue… IVR and click on the Queue we want to modify. Then we can scroll to one of the deflection options let's say custom after hours…and decide voice mail is the right option. Now we can customize the greeting For that if we would like with either text to speech or an audio recording…and then click save. The next section in operation management that is relevant for the end of the call journey is wrap up This can be found under settings operation management. You can toggle wrap up exceeded to on or off. If you use wrap up exceeded it will transition agents to wrap up exceeded status once they have gone beyond a wrap up threshold time and have cleared…all ongoing sessions. The agent will be notified of this It's important to note that this status is only available when disposition codes and notes are also enabled. You then have automatic wrap up for calls. This will move agents out of wrap up and into the available status in a certain amount of seconds that you can determine here…Just a reminder that wrap up can be configured at the queue level as well. But here in the global settings if you toggle the wrap up to on, then you can create disposition codes and notes for calls…Disposition codes and notes are tools that allow contact center agents to document the final outcome of a consumer interaction. The codes are used to classify and label inbound and outbound sessions while the notes provide additional context about the session outcome. For example indicate the next steps that need to be taken. This feature helps to inform the team of the context of the session and streamline the follow-up process for efficiency. Codes are the short pre defined phrases or words that are used to classify the outcome of the call Notes are more detailed …If we turn these on we can make codes and notes either optional or mandatory. We can also choose from disposition code lists. Please note in order to use disposition codes and notes automatic wrap up must be enabled. If you click manage disposition codes you can make as many codes as you would like to assist agents in moving through wrap up quickly. You can also organize disposition codes into lists like you see here. And at the top you can toggle between those lists you've created and the codes themselves …You can have lists or codes be active…or you can deactivate them. Let's practice making a list and adding codes to that list. If we click create disposition list, we can list it as a name. We can Add a custom ID but this is optional, and then click add. Now that we have our list if we click on it we can add disposition codes that are exist thing into the list, such as completed sale. We can also create a disposition code…and add it to the list as well. Back in operation management, you can determine your customer satisfaction ratings settings. If you want to leverage CSAT you should toggle this to on. Then you can enable or disable these two settings for CSAT and click save. Just a reminder that this can also be set at the queue level. We always recommend utilizing CSAT scores to help with contact center efficiency feedback, coaching and improvement. Along the lines of contact center efficiency and improvement…for anything related to call monitoring and reporting please see the manager facing Google Cloud Skills boost course titled Manage Functions and Reporting with CCAIP…

### Document - [Resources: Call Configuration](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508646)

### Document - [Activity: Modify IVR Specific Messages](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508647)

### Quiz - [Call Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/quizzes/508648)

#### Quiz 1.

> [!important]
> **One of your newest agents is dealing with an escalated call right now. You make the decision that you would like to hear the call for yourself. To do this you would need to:**
>
> - [ ] Modify the queue-level settings
> - [ ] Go to the Manager's office
> - [ ] Open the recording
> - [ ] Barge in on the call

#### Quiz 2.

> [!important]
> **One of your managers comes to you and states that they need to have more wrap up time for one of their queues. They are currently dealing with a difficult issue with callers in that queue. How would you give agents working in that queue more time on the wrap up?**
>
> - [ ] Access the queue the manager is assigned to and modify the queue-level automatic wrap up settings to be longer than the current time.
> - [ ] Change the universal caller announcement interval.
> - [ ] Tell Managers that the Agents in that queue that they are allowed to exceed the time and deal with it later.
> - [ ] Edit the timer menu.

#### Quiz 3.

> [!important]
> **One of your queues is for a small sales team that is eager to answer calls. Right now Deltacast is the go-to routing configuration for all of your queues, but how might you leverage a different CCAIP routing option so that all sales team agents in this queue get the call offered at the same time and the quickest or most efficient agent will be able to respond?**
>
> - [ ] Enable an automatic redirection.
> - [ ] Switch the routing option to cascade groups.
> - [ ] Switch the routing option for this sales queue to multicast.
> - [ ] Enable auto answer.

## Global Chat Settings and Chat: SMS

In this module, you learn to enable, configure, and manage global chat settings and the SMS channel. 

### Video - [Chat Routing and Global Chat Settings](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/video/508649)

- [YouTube: Chat Routing and Global Chat Settings](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=58_4Wlv4QuY)

… In this demo you learn to configure settings that leverage CCAIP's…chat routing technology… and configure global chat settings…The next few modules will discuss CCAIP's…chat capabilities with different channels. Before we dive into our specific topic for this module SMS, let's discuss chat routing. Please keep in mind that as always your usage and view of the platform may vary depending on your contact center channels preferences and configuration…Chat routing with CCAIP is exactly like call routing You can leverage multicast Delta Cast auto answer cascade groups direct access points etc. You can customize chat routing options at the global and queue level. If we navigate to settings operation management, we can scroll to this section on routing. You can see here that you have the…to configure global routing for chat. You can choose multicast or Deltacast…If you select Deltacast you have similar routing options as with call. You can select the attempt count, Then there's the routing logic option. This is different from call. This option allows you to determine when Deltacast routes new chat to the agent with the fewest concurrent chats. If an agent is on a call, the call should count as x number of concurrent chats. So some of your agents may be enabled for call and chat queues…This gives you the ability to restrict how many chats and calls they could be handling simultaneously …Next you can determine the time out. Missed chat threshold, unresponsive threshold, and the cascade timer selection if you decide to use cascade groups. The default settings here for all of these are what we typically recommend but please make changes as needed to meet the needs of your consumers …Whatever settings you configure, click save. So just like we talked about with call routing, chat routing can be modified at the queue level. So all of these settings we just reviewed here in operation management will also appear in the queue level setting options for your chat channels. There are other options related to routing at the queue level that we should note but we'll discuss that more as we work through the individual chat channels. There are other general chat settings to review prior to us jumping in and discussing the specific chat channels. If we navigate to…settings, chat , we can view edit and modify global chat settings. You can determine the chat concurrency globally…During the module on agents and teams we discussed how you can chat concurrency and the users and teams section when you are adding agents either individually or in bulk. To refresh your memory chat concurrency gives you the ability control how many chats an agent can have simultaneously…There is no best practice to recommend here because agent ability and preferences will ultimately determine how you want to set this number. You can decide whether or not you want to send new chat to agents that are on a call and vice versa if you want to send new calls to agents who are on a chat. With inactive chats You can toggle this to on or off depending on your use case. If it is on you can decide how many minutes a human agent chat can be dismissed after if there is no activity by the end user, and you can determine the timing for that with virtual agent for chat. Then you can decide on the dismissal method. You can have agents dismiss chats manually, or you can auto dismiss inactive chats. Obviously if you set it to auto dismiss that will save your agents time and will help keep them on track and organized within the adapter. If you do auto dismiss you can set the timing of when to notify the sooner that there will be a dismissal in x amount of minutes. Again we will be talking about specific channels soon but if you are leveraging SMS can have a couple of customized dismissal messages here…Then you can set the agent target chat response time This setting is crucial. For your role as admin this feature will automatically remind agents to respond promptly to conversations. And the agents will get a visual cue showing which chat needs their attention. And ultimately consumers have less wait time and quick resolution which keeps CSAT high. The response timer starts when the agent is assigned and the consumer has sent a message. It will start even if the agent has not sent a message yet. If the agent responds the counter will not begin again until after the consumer replies…The last setting…here is the CRM…record auto load. You can automatically load the CRM record when switching between chat tabs, This can help agents save a ton of time and keep all the consumer context at the forefront of each conversation. Whatever settings you decide, click save…Many of these settings can also be modified at the queue level which we will look at when we explore the individual chat channels. Let's scroll a bit further in the global chat settings. An important feature here is chat shortcuts. When chatting with consumers, agents need to get to the resolution as quickly as possible and chat shortcuts can be used to add repeatable phrases, steps, and solutions to chat conversations. Once added here, the created shortcuts are accessible in the agent adapter …If we click to view all shortcuts, we can edit or delete existing shortcuts that are here and we can add new shortcuts. And if we do click to add a shortcut you'll notice that you can include certain attributes to help agents save time and make each conversation feel personalized …Back under our global settings for chat our next section is auto answer. This is a form of routing and it falls under this global setting. You can enable this with a toggle…You can also modify this at the queue level once it is enabled globally. Please remember that auto answer only works when DeltaCast is enabled. Agent assist will be covered in a later module but if you want to enable agent assist globally for chat This is where you can toggle it to on and then determine which features you want to utilize and click save. With chat transcripts, you can decide if you want to display previous chat interactions. If you do enable this you can decide who gets to see it. Agent and consumer, agent only or consumer only and then click save. For troubleshooting purposes and contextual conversations, agent must see the previous chat interactions. Consumers are often frustrated when they have to repeat their problem or quest and if you give agents visibility into the previous chat interactions, they can jump right into resolution mode as quickly as possible. In addition, it can be helpful to give consumers insight into the previous conversation as well. The last global setting to review is the agent chat notifications. This is similar to the agent call notifications we reviewed in a previous module. The upper part of this section is about new chat notifications. You can select the tone you want to use or upload a custom tone. You can set the notification frequency…and the lower part of this section is about new message notifications…So new chats up here would be a new interaction that has been routed to the agent and the new message notification…would be an ongoing interaction where a consumer has just sent a new message. Typically it's a good idea to have different notifications for these two different things So that agents do not get confused on what types of messages they are getting as they may be handling calls and chats, even multiple chats simultaneously…Whatever you decide, click save. There are some additional global chat settings that can be configured in operation manage …some of those are related to CRM…If we keep scrolling …We can get to wrap up which can be configured for chats. Similar to calls you can enable automatic wrap up for chats. And then designate the allowed wrap up time to a certain amount of seconds…You can also manage disposition codes and notes for chats. You can add disposition codes. You can turn those codes into lists for organization. And you can enable codes and notes and make those optional or mandatory for chats and then click save. You can set target metrics for chat. So target CSAT service level targets and more. This can also be set course at the queue level like call …and you can enable queue priority for chats. Again this is enable it globally and you can specify even more within the queue level settings…You can enable wait time prioritization…for chats…and decide to increase the priority of a chat by one queue priority level every certain amount of seconds …and click save…

### Video - [Chat: SMS (Part 1)](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/video/508650)

- [YouTube: Chat: SMS (Part 1)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9HeMno0mKQM)

… In this demo you learn to identify how to obtain manage and enable phone numbers for SMS, configure blended SMS the SMS channel and pre session SMS at the global and Queue level, recognize outbound SMS API capabilities…and modify SMS languages and messages …Our first chat channel to discuss in-depth is SMS. SMS is a quick and easy way to chat with your consumers via text message. Because of its anytime anywhere availability, SMS typically has higher engagement rates compared to other communication channels…SMS messaging enables you to do the following. Provide a seamless text messaging experience for your consumers, texting is the primary means of communication in the twenty first century and with the SMS channel you can meet consumers where they are. SMS can mean chatting in multiple languages…proactively reaching out to consumers using outbound SMS and maintaining a community with your consumers beyond when they need support. Agents can receive images and videos from consumers…SMS messaging also allows you to create flexible queues that route consumers to the correct agent. Transfer chat between agents and implement multiple SMS phone numbers for different business lines…From the agent perspective, they handle SMS the same way as any other type of chat message. The experience is overall quite similar but there are notable differences related to privacy. We encourage you to explore the SMS messaging consumer privacy article in the technical documentation…From the consumer perspective receiving support through SMS should be like any other texting experience. A consumer sends a text to your incoming SMS support phone number or short code. The consumer receives an opt in message which covers requirements set forth by consumer privacy laws. If your SMS queue has multiple menu options the consumer receives navigation instructions…an agent assigned to the queue responds to the consumer…Prior to utilizing the SMS channel there are some steps you must take as the customer and admin. Within phone number management, you should have numbers that are verified for SMS. The numbers must be configured specifically for SMS. Your implementation team or support team can help procure those SMS numbers. In order to have SMS numbers there is carrier compliance survey that will need to be completed at the beginning of your implementation project. Your implementation team or support team can help facilitate that. You want to ensure you are within regulatory compliance in order to utilize SMS numbers and communicate with consumers via SMS. SMS testing of any kind will likely fail until the carrier compliance survey has been completed …There are legal considerations for using SMS because there are elements of consumer consent involved in any type of SMS communication…we recommend discussing all of this with your legal team prior to implementation. Once you have those numbers procured and verified for SMS you should know that if you are going to use the in call SMS feature, you cannot reuse those phone numbers for SMS chat. Each incoming number can be assigned to one queue only Each queue can have multiple incoming numbers as long as each number is unique. Incoming numbers can be used as outbound numbers but not vice versa. Outbound numbers can be assigned to multiple queues and each queue can have multiple outbound numbers. SMS numbers can have different sending limits. Please note that it can take anywhere from two to four obtain SMS numbers due to government regulations…Once you have all of those logistical items taken care of you can start to configure and enable the various SMS features you would like to leverage. To review each of the SMS types how to configure and discuss the best practices we recommend, let's look at this chart and go one by one. There are many capabilities within the SMS channel. The first option is a blended wait time SMS feature seen here at the beginning of the chart. This feature allows your team to send SMS messages to callers who are waiting to be connected to an agent. By enabling this feature the caller will be able to provide necessary and important information to the agent via SMS. Ultimately by enabling your callers to provide information about the reason they are calling in the agent can leverage the information collected for a faster resolution time. Take a look at this chart. It shows a typical flow that would include the wait time SMS. A consumer would call in via IVR and then select a queue option. That selection would trigger the estimated wait time counter if it is enabled. If the wait time is within threshold, the system will prompt the consumer to consent to wait time SMS…If the consumer consents, they will get those wait time messages until an agent…is available …Back here if the estimated wait time is not within threshold, Then there will be no SMS wait time message offered and the consumer will follow the standard queue flow. Into the platform we go to enable this feature. Navigate to settings, blended SMS …You need to toggle use blended SMS to on in order to configure and utilize…Then we need to enable wait time SMS for IVR by clicking this checkbox. The interval at which the wait time SMS consent message will be played is based on the global announcement setting. If you click the edit announcement interval you will be taken to the call settings page. Then you can check the box to limit the number of times the SMS consent message is played. When this is enabled, it sets the threshold for the number of times the caller will hear the message…For more specific controls of when callers should receive the option to use wait time SMS enable the below option by clicking this box…Then set the minimum and maximum wait time that needs to be reached based on estimated wait time for the caller to hear the option to use wait time SMS. There are some CRM considerations with wait time SMS. You may decide that if a caller selects a queue then opts in for wait time SMS then abandons the call before being connected to an agent, you want the CRM to create a ticket if the system otherwise wouldn't create one. To control this navigate to settings, operation management…then scroll to the general CRM settings…and decide if you want to create CRM tickets for abandoned calls. If you do you will check this box and either decide to create records for all abandoned calls or abandoned calls with wait time SMS data. Let's go back to the blended SMS settings…We already talked about enabling these settings So now we need to scroll to compose our messages for the wait time SMS…We have to ask for consent…to send wait time SMS and then have a message for wait time SMS sent. These two messages can be text to speech or recordings that you upload here. You can also restore to defaults if you don't want to compose your own message …Let's review how to control this at the queue level. Navigate to settings, Queue, IVR, and click on the queue you want to modify. Scroll to… Enable blended SMS session and toggle that to on. Then you can decide to enable wait time SMS for this specific queue …If you are enabling that, click customize…You can enable wait time SMS only if estimated wait time is between a certain minimum and maximum of seconds…This will default to the global setting if you do not customize it at the queue level…You can continue to scroll and have queue level settings for audible messages. Asking for consent, wait time SMS sent messages. And down here you can customize…the enable wait time SMS message …Whatever settings you do here at the queue level, click save. With blended SMS, you can also leverage in call SMS seen here on the chart. This feature might be beneficial if you need an agent to send a link code or other text based message to assist consumers. It's also crucial to have this feature for smart actions. Smart actions allow agents to receive photos videos and screenshots from consumers and exchange texts. It's also a useful feature because it means you can communicate your consumer via text without a mobile app. There is a flow chart to help you understand how in call SMS can be leveraged. A consumer would call in via IVR and select the queue. Once the agent is connected to the consumer the agent will confirm that the consumer is calling from a phone that can receive text messages and is within the US. If you are a CCAI platform customer outside the US please see the technical documentation or communicate with support to learn more about how to leverage this feature. Once the agent has confirmed this the agent will use the adapter to send the initial SMS. Once that sends the SMS conversation and IVR conversation continue simultaneously …When the IVR call ends the system will send the closing SMS message and that session will be closed as well. To leverage this feature you need to go to settings blended SMS and ensure that this toggle is on. You will obviously need SMS verified numbers like we discussed previously. And remember phone numbers that are utilized for the in call SMS which we're talking about right now cannot be reused for SMS chat…Let's scroll to the non US phone number configurations…This is where you can enable SMS for non US phone number…There are a lot of compliance and telephony considerations for this setting. So please see the technical documentation for more details. Scroll a bit more to the blended SMS session preset messages by admin section. Here you will store the messages that agents can utilize communicating via SMS during a call with a consumer. When this checkbox is enabled, the agent will only be able select from the messages created by you as admin. You can create as many preset messages as you would like. You can also create preset messages in other languages that you have configured. You can see here in the demo there are preset messages asking for photos This would be useful if a consumer is claiming a product broke or is faulty. There's a message asking for a video This could be useful for an insurance claim on a car that was recently involved in an accident. And so many other use cases that you can leverage with these preset messages. To add an SMS message that is preset for agents to utilize click this button…You can label it and then type in the SMS message here and click save …Whatever messages you configure for this section, click save …Aside from the messages set up by you as admin the agent can also create their own text based messages during the SMS exchange if you check this box. If you want to allow agents to compose custom SMS messages to send to the consumer during a call , you'll click this and then click save. SMS sessions are ended as soon as the call has ended regardless of the reason for the call termination. And no new messages will be added to the ticket case or available in the agent adapter…below are two optional but recommended messages that can be customized and sent by default after the SMS session has completed. You can utilize the default messages for automatically send a closing SMS message and send an SMS auto response, or you can customize these messages and click save. Both of these messages can be modified for the amount of languages you have configured for your tenant. Now that this has been enabled globally let's review how to enable it at the queue level. Settings, Q…IVR…Click on the queue you want to modify … And as long as you have this enable blended SMS session toggle to on. Agents in this queue will be able to leverage in call SMS.

### Video - [Chat: SMS (Part 2)](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/video/508651)

- [YouTube: Chat: SMS (Part 2)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SVm8YOkHgf8)

…After blended SMS, we have the SMS channel seen here on the chart. With the SMS channel chats can be inbound or outbound independent of an IVR call. With SMS inbound or outbound, phone numbers are provided to consumers and they can initiate SMS chat sessions via text messages on their mobile device. Agents can also initiate outbound SMS chats. To leverage the SMS channel, we go to settings…chat…and then scroll to the SMS section, which will be near the bottom … We must toggle the use SMS chat button to on. Now we can configure global settings for the SMS channel. This includes queue selecting state chat expiration…This would be the maximum duration a chat remains in the queue selecting state before it expires. The unanswered SMS chat expiration during hours of operation and during after hours. The incoming SMS chat time out… and the outbound SMS chat time out. Whatever settings you decide click save. And note that these can also be configured at the queue level… If we keep scrolling, we get to the SMS end user commands section. In order to comply with consumer privacy laws certain SMS command words are preconfigured and cannot be changed. You can see those here. Here is where you can enable outbound SMS. And then this phone number management button will take you directly to the general phone number management section we've looked out a few times…When you have configured these settings globally, you can now build out your SMS channel queues. Navigate to settings…queue, SMS messaging …You can create the same type of menu structure here that we practiced in the module on the call channel. You can click the edit pencil button to modify the overall structure for your queues …You can add queues … Make subqueues … Relabel…You can move them around. You can edit delete, and modify as needed. When you have the queue structure the way you want you can click done. Within the queue you can specify queue level metrics…That could mean a different chat service level target and chat concurrency target then what is it the global chat settings? If you modify these click save…You can establish a different queue priority …than what is at the global level…You can hide this SMS cue from the main menu that consumers will get to choose from. You can use this setting option within any queue for any channel actually. For SMS it might be useful if you want this queue to be for escalations and agents can be the only ones to see it and utilize it. If you keep scrolling you will see those custom chat configuration options that mirror what you could set globally. You can modify these at the queue level as needed. You can customize…SMS chat system messages. You can modify the target chat response time for agents to meet within this queue. And you can enable a greeting message. You can decide to skip a greeting message after hours You can customize that message …With menu keywords, this is when a consumer texts a top level queue the system automatically prompts the consumer to enter a number associated with a sub queue. This will be based on the order in which you have your…queues listed on the queue menu setting page, but you can also add keywords to queues. When the keyword is entered by the consumer They are taken directly to that queue…In this example the keyword is support. It's been assigned to the support queue…Finally at the bottom you can configure the incoming SMS numbers and the outbound SMS numbers. And you can also modify wrap up settings for this queue. After the SMS channel, you can maintain and configure the pre session SMS deflection feature. Pre session SMS deflection allows for more effective channel use and a speedier support experience for calls. Precession SMS deflection enables you to offer SMS chat support as an alternative option for IVR callers before the call is connected to an agent. This feature is configured at the IVR queue level and can be offered to callers conditionally…based on the estimated wait time. Callers who opt in for the SMS deflection will respond to an incoming SMS continue their support session over an established SMS. Once the SMS is successfully delivered the call will be terminated automatically…Please note right now this product will support SMS and English US language only and it is available for the IVR channel only. To enable this feature, go to settings…call… scroll to pre session SMS…and toggle this to on. Then you can enable this at the queue level under settings. Queue, IVR, and click on the queue you want to modify. Scroll to the pre session SMS deflection …Click the drop down arrow. You can enable session transfers to the SMS channel, if you would like …Now, you can configure the SMS queue settings…You can…select the queue that you want to transfer…those support sessions to …You can enable pre session SMS deflection only when the estimated wait time is a certain number of minutes…You can customize audible messages…and the SMS messages…Whatever settings you decide upon here click save. Before we review our SMS API options, let's navigate to… settings…languages and messages. To talk about all the SMS messages you must configure. Scroll to the pre session SMS deflection section … Here you can modify the offer announcement message and the opted in announcement message. These could be text to speech or audio recordings. If you scroll a bit further you can modify the pre session SMS deflection greeting…Here at the bottom. This can include attributes…as you can see here. Whatever settings you configure in languages and messages click save under each section. You can repeat this message composition step for as many languages as you need. Here under this one you can see the option to switch between Spanish and English to modify …and back up under the other section for SMS messages …You can do the same. There are two outbound SMS APIs you can leverage. One is sessionless and the other will be true agent to consumer conversations. With session-less outbound SMS API this API call initiates non session linked SMS messages that can be triggered during an existing workflow. A session-less SMS is preferred in instances where just a one time message is sent out to consumers and there's no need for a CRM ticket to open. For instance if you wanna send a message to consumers advertising a sale or launching a new mobile app or sending a one time password, You could send a message that will not open any agent to consumer conversations. With session-less you only send the notification and the consumer responds. With session-less you only send the notification and if the consumer responds they receive a default message, if configured, and are not routed to an agent. The outbound SMS API on the other hand provides an endpoint for initiating outbound SMS messages. This enables you to programmatically send SMS messages to consumers. For example if you want to notify the consumer that their order is ready for pickup and give them the option to respond this would be a useful feature. An active session is created when an outbound SMS is sent when the consumer responds, they will be routed to an agent. To set up either of these SMS API options please see the technical documentation…

### Document - [Resources: SMS | Global Chat Settings and SMS Configuration](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508652)

## Chat: Web Channel (Chat and Call)

In this module, you learn to enable, configure, and manage the web channel. 

### Video - [Web Channel: Overview and Configuration](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/video/508653)

- [YouTube: Web Channel: Overview and Configuration](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-Zq6H5HJcz0)

…In this demo you learn to recognize web channel setup recommendations, enable and configure the web channel, modify global and queue level web channel settings, and manage all web deflection techniques…CCAI platform offers customers a web channel. With this channel offering you can provide consumer support on your company website. The web SDK allows for consumers to reach out via chat human or virtual agents supported, voice instant or scheduled voice calls, or send an email. Within this channel you can leverage chat virtual agents as mentioned previously. These VA's could help deflect from live agents and resolve common issues quickly and efficiently , configure the interactions to be contextual and or proactive experiences. For instance, set up proactive triggers to assist consumers based on their website behavior. With this channel you can use a variety of deflections such as scheduling a callback pointing to an FAQ page, a frequently visited company web page etc. You can also leverage other mediums to engage consumers such as your social media pages. When you leverage calls through the web SDK, those calls are PSTN or IVR calls and do not utilize VoIP calling. Please note that smart actions are not available for web SDK scheduled calls. The benefit of PSTN calling is that it is not dependent on an internet connection. So if the consumer was at home on their laptop trying to reach out to your support center via your company web site and they selected to receive a scheduled call. If that call is two hours later and they are away from their laptop it won't matter because call will come through the phone number they provided via PSTN. CCAI platform has two different types of web SDKs, regular, and headless, The headless web SDK provides developers with the flexibility to extend and customize your company's support experience according to your requirements. It contains all of our familiar web SDK features and allows you to build out the UI and UX to support them. In the context of software development headless refers to a decoupled architecture where the front end presentation layer the head, is separated from the back end logic and functionality. And a headless architecture at the back end also known as the headless part provides APIs that allow developers to access and use its features and services. For an in-depth look at headless versus regular web SDK development, please see the technical documentation. If your business decides to leverage the web channel the implementation team will help facilitate that setup. The technical documentation is quite robust and should assist your web team and getting the SDK up and running. As the admin you will mostly be focused on maintaining the original configuration and adjusting the settings as needed. To reiterate the integration, overall development and setup of the web SDK will happen during implementation and coordination with your internal web teams. Those teams will follow the documentation that will be provided and ultimately own that part of the project. Let's jump into the platform. Please note if you have navigated out of order in your coursework and skipped to this module, and you haven't seen the previous one, You will miss important context on the global chat settings that must be configured in order to leverage the web channel chat functionality fully. Please be sure to go back and engage with module five prior to continuing with this content here in module six. Like any other channel we've discussed so far the web channel has global and queue level settings. To start, navigate to settings, operation management, and examine the CRM settings in the general settings section here. There is one option here very specific to SDKs …Within the SDK there is the option to pass in the record ID. If this is happening meaning your web element team has set it up so that when chats are coming in via the SDK, you could determine whether you want to create a new record whether that ID is closed or you can opt to have that record reopened by clicking here. An example to consider would be if a returning consumer contact support via the web SDK chat, and they had a previous chat conversation with an agent several days ago. That record was closed by that agent. In this new second interaction, you can decide if you want this interaction to be a new record…or if you want to reopen the record from that prior interaction. The idea behind creating a new record would be that it is a new issue so it shouldn't be tacked on the prior issue the consumer reached out for. But depending on your business model maybe consumers typically contact customer service for the same thing And it should all be recorded together, in which case reopening makes the most sense. A health insurer company for instance may want to always reopen the record so that everything related to a patient's ongoing health is in one record. Now scroll to the routing section … Web channel routing will default to whatever global settings you have for call or chat here In this section. You can modify those settings at the queue level which we'll talk about later. After ensuring your routing decisions the way you want them you should scroll to web collect customer email…here. This feature allows you to force email entry before a support session is initiated. The email collection form can be enabled for all queues globally or enabled individually for calls and chat channels…The email address entered will be uploaded as a common in the CRM ticket. If this is enabled globally you can modify it at the queue level as well. Other settings you have configured in operation management such as cue priority, target metrics, wrap up…will all be utilized for the web channel as well and you can modify most of these at the queue level. The custom field mapping section is worth pointing to again even though we discussed it in a previous module. This option is available with the web SDK. This is where within the SDK when you are sending over the details for an interaction to start you can pass in certain things that you want to pass into your CRM. So let's say on your website you have collected a piece of consumer information, such as their name. There could be a specific field within the CRM that houses that name…So you could click into here…and add CRM field mapping …For that field name in the CRM, so that as the caller chat is coming in you can map that from the SDK to the CRM. So the SDK will have a section within its code mapping that's going to map with a payload into the CRM looking for what we have outlined here on this page in CCAIP…These decisions and the setup for custom field mapping typically also done by your company's web team. But as the admin you may support them in that process since you may know the CRM information in details better than your internal web development team. Let's review another setting in operation management and that is CSAT here. If you scroll to this customer satisfaction ratings section if this is turned on like it is now and enabled it will offer consumers a survey prompt at the end of their web session. The prompt will only appear if both the agent and consumer have sent at least one message. Some more details for this feature related to the web channel. It's available for inbound sessions only. CSAT will be based on a one to five star rating, consumers are not able to skip the rating screen when enabled. And if it is enabled CSAT UI will show for web and mobile SDKs…Now let's scroll up to the top and go to settings…call…There are a few more web channel settings to note in this section. In the collar announcements area …You can enable the overcapacity…deflection for the web channel here …If you enable this it will inherit the same as the universal color announcement interval at the top of this section. If you scroll a bit further, you can define…What the after hours deflection will be for your web SDK…For after hours, maybe a scheduled call, email phone number or voice mail option, you can select any or all…With the overcapacity deflection, same options again. Whatever settings you decide for this section, be sure to click save…Now let's navigate to settings chat…All of these settings will impact the chat experience for agents and consumers and a web queue that is utilizing chat so configure accordingly…We reviewed many of those settings in the previous modules, so continue down to the web and mobile specific settings. Which can be found here…In order to leverage the web chat capabilities in any web queue this toggle must be on. Then you can make decisions about the unanswered chat expiration…and chat time out. The message preview option can be either on or off. If you turn it on agents can see a live preview of what the consumer is typing…Then there is the email transcripts option. You can allow consumers to request email transcripts via web chats…If you enable this you can specify the outbound email address to utilize. You will have to set up some white listing to leverage this the web development team can assist with that. If this is enabled and set up consumers will see a little envelope type icon that prompt them to decide if they want the transcript emailed to them And if so they can specify which email address they want it sent to. Whatever settings you decide, click save. If you scroll a bit further you will see the web proactive…chat trigger section. When triggers are configured and the trigger conditions are met the web SDK window will appear expanded on the page prompting the consumer to make a selection from choices dictated by the trigger configuration. For example, can we help you want to learn more? Proactive triggers help increase product sales and consumer retention while minimizing consumer churn by sending a relevant targeted message from any web page. With the web SDK icon options, Before the trigger conditions are met on a page the web SDK icon will still appear on the page by default. The trigger expands the web SDK window but the eye con is not hidden before the trigger conditions are met. When configuring the web SDK you can hide the web SDK icon and have the proactive trigger show the icon and launch the consumer UI. To learn more about that see hiding the launcher in the web SDK guide. A few other things to note about the triggers. Trigger conditions can only be met once per day per consumer. Trigger can be set for time spent on a page, keywords are or are not in the URL…returning our new visitor to the page and visited page x number of times…Click add trigger…You can choose a name for this trigger …Then you need to set the conditions for the trigger. You can select from the drop down menu, For this demo let's select time spent on a page. Then we can determine how many seconds… Click next, and then our last step will be to define actions. The first would be the queue assignment…It will auto populate as we type and then we can select the queue we want to assign the proactive trigger to, and then we can modify the chat message. If this is for an auto financing lease inquiry, the chat message could be want …to learn more about our leases …And then click finish. Back under settings chat we can scroll to the web and mobile deflection section. We can enable after hour deflection and over capacity deflection. If we enable these we can decide what we want those options to be. With after hours it could be email…and or external deflection link. With over capacity it could be those two options plus a keep waiting option. If we decide to use external deflection links with either of these settings, we can set those links up by clicking the drop down, and then selecting the deflection, clicking add. Now…that option is available to us and we can check that box. To manage the external deflection links scroll a bit further to view the links …External deflection links give you the ability to offer additional support options in addition to our standard chat call and email options. For example, add a billing FAQ link to your billing queue or link to your social media channels. External deflection links can be configured as the only support option. The external deflection link appears in the UI based on how it is created in the add deflection links configuration panel. For example, the name a call to action and the icon upload. Here you can edit or delete existing links and you can add new ones. Click add deflection link. You need to give this an identifier which will be visible to you on the back end, and the display name which is what the consumers will see. The URL for the link, and then the web icon. This could be a social media icon logo etc. Once you have this information filled out click save. Let's look at the web queues. Click settings, queue… web…Now you can build a queue structure the same way you did for the other channel. Click the edit pencil button to build the queue menu structure. You can have top level queues subcues, you can delete or move the queues and you can build out web queues for more than one language…Back on the queues , you can now click on the queue you want to modify. You can set up that particular web queue for email…VA chat… or a human agent chat and or…scheduled voice calls and or instant voice calls…you can assign…agents or virtual agents to those particular channel settings. You also can set up an external deflection link. If you click the deflection link you want to utilize…and click add You'll see that that option is now available for you to enable. When it comes to this scheduled voice call feature, If you have this enabled for your queue, the consumer will have a pop up on the website chat window that within the hours you've configured will offer them the opportunity to schedule a callback at a later time. Let's say they select tomorrow at ten AM eastern because it's more convenient for them. The next day at ten AM Eastern whatever agents are assigned to this queue in this section of either scheduled voice calls or instant voice calls. An available agent will be reserved a little shy of that ten AM window to make that scheduled callback. When the ten AM time window arrives the agent call adapter will begin to contact the consumer who reserved the time slot. Scroll a bit further to enable agent assist…Once again we'll talk about this more in a future module but if this is enabled globally you can modify it at the queue level. Scroll a bit further to modify the routing for the calls and chats in this web queue… You can also set different target metrics for this web queue. Maybe you want a different call or chat service level target. Modify that and then click save…You can leverage enable blended SMS sessions for in or scheduled calls if you have those enabled for this web queue. Please see the previous module to learn more about blended SMS. You can leverage automatic redirection for this web queue. For instance let's say you have a web queue for filling out a job application. But maybe your business decided that they do not want to accept any new applications for the next month. That web queue for app could have an automatic redirection that is a message…stating thanks for your interest in our job postings We are not accepting any new applications at this time …And then you can click save. As stated before queue priority can also be set here so it is different from the global setting …Scrolling further you can customize your chat settings for unanswered chat expiration inactive chats and dismissals, chat time out and agent target chat response time, whatever settings you configure here click save…If you leverage calls for this web queue you can utilize call recording…You can enable…calls to be recorded , not recorded, and also ask permission for recording…You can enable call recording redaction…We will discuss payment integrations in a future module but just know that this can be configured at the queue level for the web channel…Just the same as any other queue in any other channel you can hide selection from the menu so that consumers are not privy to it That might mean it's queue for internal escalations …Web channel can also leverage direct access points. With web that direct access point could be general or user segment. This will be a more controlled experience and can note what page or screen a consume is on and route them to a correlated queue. With a general direct access point this is an access point that is placed in your set up by your developers. When this access point is reached by consumer they are directed to this specific queue. With a user segment direct access point…customer user field set up in your CRM will recognize contacts preset by your team. When considering the general direct access point here is a use case. Let's say a consumer is on one of your web pages. Maybe you have a page for lease inquiries, and then another page for payment inquiries. Like you can see here in the queue menu. On each of those pages the SDK is looking for what we call a menu key That menu key is related to the access point. So the SDK when accessed by a consumer can drop that consumer at the top of the queue menu so they can see…all of the options available to them or it will drop them into a very specific menu key as a direct access point. So let's set up a direct access point for this specific page. You will have a spot in the integration that says look for a menu key for this …You would give the access point a name such as lease inquiries …And then you would give the general access point label. That could be Lease…Inc…Then you can modify the greeting message and click create…Now you will give that label you created the lease underscore ink to the web development team working on the integration of the SDK and they will map to that page they are integrating for lease inquiries so that if someone is on the lease inquiry page of their website and they want to chat with somebody and they click that little chat icon at the bottom of their browser, the system will know to send them…directly to this queue…in the overall menu structure to get them to help they need as quickly as possible. The consumer doesn't need to see any other options because they need help with this very specific thing. Now if we were to move this direct access point up a level to auto financing, the consumer would get directly to that top level queue and then see the sub options to pick from in the web SDK chat box. Scroll a bit more to select your outbound phone numbers for this web queue if you are using calls…Design if you want the call auto answer feature to be enabled …You can modify the weight and hold music for this queue if you want it to be different than the global music. And finally, modify wrap up at the queue level. Let's visit languages and messages to modify those options for the web channel. Settings, languages and messages …Scroll to the web and mobile messages section and you can decide which language you want to modify and…For ease of access you can also select which channel But right now we are talking about the web SDK. There are a number of different here you can modify and compose. Those messages can contain attributes like you see here. Whatever you configure for this section, click save.

### Document - [Activity : Create a Proactive Web Trigger](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508654)

### Document - [Resources: Web Settings and Configuration](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508655)

## Chat: Mobile Channel (Chat and Call)

In this module, you learn to enable, configure, and manage the mobile channel. 

### Video - [Mobile Channel: Overview and Configuration](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/video/508656)

- [YouTube: Mobile Channel: Overview and Configuration](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n6msBFc_92A)

…In this demo you learn to recognize mobile channel set recommendations…enable and configure the mobile channel, modify global and Q level mobile channel settings and manage all mobile deflection techniques…The contact center AI platforms mobile SDK allows consumers to reach out via chat or voice and also schedule a call or submit an email within a customer's app. This feature is beneficial for customers who have one or more mobile apps. Within the mobile SDK you can leverage smart actions to instantly verify users with touch ID and face ID request photos videos screenshots, and text input. You can also leverage chat and voice virtual agents to assist zoomers quickly and deflect from live agents. Four agents mobile chat and calls are in the same adapter as other voice and messaging channels so there isn't agent train needed to leverage this channel. The mobile channel will be set up during the implementation phase of your onboarding project your team the customer's mobile development team, will be responsible for the mobile SDK integration with guidance from the implementation team. We will not cover how to implement or install it as that should be part of your onboarding process. Instead, this video will take the perspective that you need to maintain. Configure and make adjustments to what is in CCAIP and your daily workflow as an admin. I want to zoom in really quickly on this multiple apps column. It's crucial to note that you can integrate with one or multiple apps For instance, some customers may have a consumer facing app. For food delivery and then a driver facing app for those that do the actual pickup and delivering. If the customer leverages CCAIP they can integrate with both of those apps to offer drivers and consumers support. Then with certain routing decisions you can make sure drivers and consumers get to the right destination. Many of the global settings for chat that are relevant for the mobile channel are covered in module five and additional SDK settings are covered in module six. If you have accessed the modules out of order you should go back to review those modules before proceeding. A major benefit of the mobile SDK for voice is that it utilizes VoIP data only calling which equals lower rates. However when data can activity is poor we do not want to make VoIP calls That data connectivity is evaluated on a zero to one scale. And that zero to one threshold is set in developer settings. When the data connection is detected as low we use PSTN fallback…This PSTN fallback flow asks the consumer for their phone number and places a standard non voip call over the phone network rather than through data. This is important for the best consumer experience with call quality no matter where they are. When PSTN calls are placed from the mobile queue smart actions are not available to the agent. Beyond the VoIP and PSTN fallback information, there are robust technical documents available in your Google Cloud contact center user guides and resources section of your Google console. Please see that location for even more technical…to get your mobile SDK integrated, installed, and set up. As always please keep in mind that the look use of your platform may differ depending on the channels you leverage. To preview at least some of these important setting locations for the integration of your app or apps. Let's navigate to settings, developer settings, and then scroll to this mobile app section. You can add multiple apps here. Once they are added and set up you can click on the pencil icon to edit here…When adding or editing, the mobile apps you're adding you will have a name, an identifier…You can enable sending SMS to download the app…You can enable the PSTN fallback down here …If turned on…you can enter the fallback phone number and the threshold for the fallback which will probably be best to leave at default. And if you do want to chat about it please talk to your mobile developer. You can also modify this at the queue level which we'll talk about later. Let's review the global settings for the mobile channel. We will start in operation management. Under the general settings section, you have the decision to make on closed record options when record ID is passed in via SDK. We talked about this at length in module six so please navigate to that module to learn more as a quick summary, this option allows you to determine whether you want to create a new record whether that ID is closed or you can opt to have that record reopen. An example would be if a returning consumer contact support via the mobile SDK chat and they had a previous chat com conversation with an agent and the record was closed by that agent In this new second interaction you can decide if you want this interaction to be a new record or if you want to reopen the record from that prior interaction…After those settings are configured the way you want you'll scroll to the pre session smart actions section…here …Pre session smart actions, which could be verification images videos or text input, can be used to gather consumer information prior to starting a mobile support session. With pre session smart actions enabled by toggling on here, you can verify a consumer's identity, gather support request related information and gather assets before the consumer enters a support queue. Precession smart actions can be configured to be optional or conditional based on the estimated wait time in the queue. The following contact channels are supported chat instant calls from the mobile channel and email. Once you toggle this to on you can set the time limit expectations. This might mean you do not want to display the options for pre session smart actions if the estimated wait time is less than a certain amount. If you set this it will apply to all mobile queues Beyond that you will then make modifications at the queue level which we'll talk about in a bit…Scroll a bit further down. Whatever global settings you have for wrap up whether it's calls…or chats, will apply to the mobile channel so configure a accordingly. You can always modify this at the queue level…Target metrics…queue priority…and CSAT will also apply to the mobile channel… Mobile display FAQ page is a mobile specific setting. This is an option available to you if you are utilizing the mobile channel. This allows you to set an FAQ page as the initial page that consumers will see instead of the menu selection. This might help redirect consumers to a robust knowledge base that already exists so they don't immediately start a support session with a live or virtual agent. You can set that up here by clicking enable and then entering the landing page URL and clicking save. This is an extremely helpful deflection option especially if you do have an extremely detailed knowledge base FAQ site, or learning management system for your consumers …In the routing section calls and chats with the mobile channel will default to the settings you configure here. You can modify it more at the queue level. Now let's go to…settings…chat, the global chat settings in this will apply to chats in the mobile channel. These are covered in-depth in module five if you would like to explore that. Keep scrolling to the web and mobile channel specific section here…To leverage the mobile channel in general this toggle must be on, then you can determine settings that impact the web and mobile channels in terms of unanswered chat expiration, chat time out , message preview, and email transcripts. We covered these in module six so please explore that for even more information about these options. Whatever you decide click save…Down here you can modify the web and mobile flexion settings. If you enable after hour, deflection, and or over capacity deflection , You can scroll down to select what those deflections will be. They can be email or an external deflection link for after hours or over capacity …This external deflection link could be an FAQ page or a page to show business hours. Right underneath this section you can edit and delete your existing external deflection links and set up new ones This is also covered in module six. Now let's navigate to settings, call. If you scroll to the caller announcements section…here …You can enable the overcapacity…deflection for…web and mobile channels with calling. This interval here will be inherited from the universal caller announcement interval selection If you scroll down further once you've enabled this you can determine …what those deflection options will be for mobile calls. In after hours you can select scheduled call email phone number voicemail…one or some combination or all of these options. And with over capacity you can select from the same options…Whatever you decide, click save. Now we can go to the queue level settings for the mobile channel. Navigate to settings, Queue…mobile. You can modify your queue structure the same as other channels, click the pencil icon and edit button to modify the structure. You can add top level queues…subqueues, and more. You can modify the queues for multiple languages. When you have the structure the way you want click done…When you click on the queue you want to modify, you can enable the email option, chat agents whether virtual or live or both , call agents whether virtual agents or live agents, and it could be instant and or scheduled calls. And then finally you can also enable external deflection links for the queue. This could be instead of or in addition to the other options enabled here. If you want to enable…you need to select the deflection link you want to leverage… and click add, and now that option will be available for you to check. If you want to leverage agent assist for this mobile queue you can enable that here. We will discuss agent assist more in a future module. Here is where you can modify the routing options in case you do not want this mobile queue to default to the global settings for call and chat routing. You can change the target metrics…for the queue here …You can leverage automatic redirection… with a mobile queue That redirection could be a message, phone number, website or voicemail. So with automatic redirection if a consumer is using your app and navigates to this particular queue…If you have automatic redirection set to a message that message will show up in the mobile app for the consumer. Here at the queue level you can also modify the queue priority. You can set custom chat configuration options such as unanswered chat expiration, inactive chats and dismissal options, chat time out and agent target chat response time and click save. If this mobile queue will be utilizing calls…you can leverage call recording and redaction here or not depending on your business…As always you can hide this queue from the consumer facing menu selection. Here we see the queue level option for PSTN fallback IVR menu. You can enable this or disable this at the queue level. If you enable it then you can select the IVR…queue you want to direct the call to and click save…Now you have the option to create direct access points at the queue level. Decide which queue language or channel an end user should reach when the SDK is invoked in various parts of your app based on predefined details. When we consider direct access points for the mobile We have the option to do a general direct access point, which is similar to the web general direct access point we discussed in the last module. You have user segment direct access point as well. If you select user segment you need to give the access point a name, identify the name of the field in the CRM that has the user segment information, enter the user segment you would like to direct to this menu option and then click create…If you are using…multiple mobile apps you can leverage this mobile app direct access point. This option is only available for top level queue menus. So if you don't see it make sure there isn't a queue above the one you have selected. Each mobile app can only be applied once as a direct access point within the entire mobile queue sure. A mobile app that has already been assigned to a different top level queue will not be available for selection in another top level queue. For more information about direct access points for the mobile channel please see the technical documentation…Continue scrolling in the queue level settings to enable call auto answer as a routing option. You can enable pre session smart actions as well. If this is enabled globally you can modify how you want to leverage those pre session smart actions the queue level, for instance. You can set the time limit. So if the wait time is less than two minutes …which is pretty short You may not want to offer the smart actions option …but you can leave this unchecked if you want the pre session smart actions to be displayed no matter the estimated wait time. You can make the smart actions request optional or mandatory…A potential use case here could be a bank. They may want ID verification no matter what so they might make this mandatory…There are more customization options here for the copy and features you enable. If you enable all one or some, It doesn't matter You can modify the title and the description of any of the features you want to leverage…Whatever you decide… Click save…As always you can modify the call wait and hold music for this mobile queue…And then finally you can modify the wrap up settings …Let's navigate to settings, languages and messages. You can add your new languages here at the top and then customize the queues for that language whatever channel. Continue scrolling to the web and mobile messages section. At the top you can specify what language you want to modify the messages for and which channel. Modify the messages as needed…and then click save…

### Document - [Activity: Modify a Mobile Channel Message](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508657)

### Document - [Resources: Mobile Settings and Configuration](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508658)

### Quiz - [Mobile Channel Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/quizzes/508659)

#### Quiz 1.

> [!important]
> **Which of the following is not an option for after-hours deflection in the mobile channel for chats? (Choose TWO)**
>
> - [ ] Voicemail deflection
> - [ ] Closed deflection
> - [ ] Email
> - [ ] External deflection link

#### Quiz 2.

> [!important]
> **What is going to cause a mobile call to go into PSTN fallback?**
>
> - [ ] When your end user gives you a bad CSAT score.
> - [ ] When your end user has too strong of a data point.
> - [ ] When your end user does not have a strong enough data connection.
> - [ ] When your end user disconnects and reconnects.

#### Quiz 3.

> [!important]
> **Where do you enable an FAQ page as the landing page for your mobile app?**
>
> - [ ] Settings > Operation management
> - [ ] Settings > Chat
> - [ ] Settings > Developer settings
> - [ ] Individual queues

## Campaigns

This module enables you to identify the different campaign types available to you with CCAIP and launch campaigns. You also observe the agent experience for the various campaigns. 

### Document - [Campaign Overview](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508660)

### Video - [Campaign Configuration](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/video/508661)

- [YouTube: Campaign Configuration](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=go79fb3nMNQ)

…In this demo you learn to generate campaigns using the campaign manager…differentiate between progressive predictive and preview campaigns…identify the agent experience for all three campaign types and assign campaigns to queues and modify campaign settings …CCAI…platform has three different campaign types to help you make your sales renewals collections and announcements even more effective. Through the automated dialing you will increase your team's efficiency and productivity. You can leverage CCAIP's campaign feature to help team maximize your connection rate and reach more consumers in a short amount of time. Enjoy the flexibility of inbound and outbound calls managing users queues access levels and performance reports. The goal of a predictive campaign is to predict how many contacts need to be dialed in order to connect consumers and agents. In this campaign type the campaign will dial multiple consumers simultaneously hoping to connect one of the reserved agents to a consumer. The number of contacts dialed in order to connect one agent to a live consumer is referred to as the overdial ratio. This ratio is then used to balance the number of agents available with the number of live consumers to minimize the number of abandoned calls. Before predictive campaign begins the available agents in a queue are reserved for the consumers within that campaign. Reservations happen when the assigned queue for the campaign begins and are determined by how many agents assigned to this queue are currently active, then the overdial ratio determines how many consumer numbers are dialed based on the number of available reserved agents. The overdial ratio is automatically adjusted in real time to assure that agents never fall below the max abandonment rate for this campaign. In order to save the agent time the system will screen out busy signals disconnected numbers fax numbers and voicemails and move on to the next consumer in the campaign list. Once CCAIP detects a live collar it connects the consumer to one of the reserved agents. If no agent is available when the live collar is to did the call will be abandoned. Since the campaign is dialing multiple consumers simultaneously the agent will not know which consumer they are speaking to until the call is connected. Once connected agents are automatically provided a preview of the consumer CRM record in the background, The agent can also preview the consumer information provided in the campaign file by clicking the downward arrow to the right of the consumer's name in the agent adapter. The adapter also provides a link to view the consumer's account in the CRM if the initial preview is no longer displayed in the background. As far as the agent experience for this type of campaign if the agent is in the available status , if there is a reservation, call it will be routed to the agent automatically. The agent will click the click to answer button And if there is no reserved call the auto dialer calls the next batch of entries from the campaign list. Once the agent picks up a call the auto dialer dials the next batch of entries from the campaign list. If the age clicks break it will drop the current call and receive the next available call from the campaign list and on and on it goes as agents handle the calls for that campaign. A potential use case for predictive campaign would be a high volume contact center where agents are doing cold calling for things like surveys…poles political research studies etcetera. And these scenarios it doesn't really matter who the agent is speaking to or what the agent knows about the consumer necessarily. It's more about the fact that they need to contact as many people as possible with the most efficient agent utilization system. Let's navigate to the platform to set up a predictive campaign. First we have to enable the predictive campaign option which we can do under settings… campaigns…We are going to enable predictive…and turn off preview for now. Once you have toggled as to on you'll see some options down here that relate to the predictive campaign…Use the overdial adjustment multiplier field to regulate how quickly the algorithm adjusts the overdial rate for this campaign. Enter a value from one to ten which will then be multiplied by the default adjustments. Use the abandon call message field to configure the message played to a consumer when a call is abandoned during this campaign. A call is considered abandoned in the following scenario…overly aggressive over dialing more consumers pick up than anticipated and the target queue runs out of available agents. Or consumer over-waiting the consumer waits for more than two seconds after saying hello before an agent is collected…This could be a text to speech option or an audio recording, and you can upload the file. There are a few more settings you can modify down here the live caller detection settings, modify these as needed. We will talk about the DNC list in a little bit but for now we will leave it as is. Once you've configured the settings the way you want them you can click save…Now that we've enabled this we can go and create an actual campaign And we do that by clicking campaigns… Click add campaign…Name your campaign…Select the mode Right now we're talking about predictive. Now you will upload your campaign list. There are some requirements for this campaign file. It must contain a list of consumers in the name column and their phone numbers in the phone column Those are two required columns. Those files are uploaded to your campaigns and the information is displayed in the agent adapter during campaign calls. The campaign files must also be in CSV file format, a maximum of ten thousand rows…Again each file must contain a name and phone column. If any of those requirements are not met the validation process will return an error message during processing and the file will not be uploaded. To read through those requirements again please see the technical document…Once you've uploaded the file you can then assign it to a queue. You can decide on the number of redials…the time interval between attempts. You can assign a time zone. We'll talk about that more in a little bit. Here again you can modify that abandoned call message even more than before And again this could be text to speech or an audio recording. This over dial adjustment multiplier we just chatted about on the last screen. In the ringing time out field you can indicate the number of seconds of ringing before call is considered not picked up. And you can set the max abandonment percentage rate to indicate the maximum percentage of calls that can be abandoned by the dialer during this campaign. The default will always be three. Once you have it the way you would like you can click save. The next type of campaign is the preview campaign…In the preview dialer campaign, agents make the dial manually but the calling list is generated automatically from the campaign list. With preview campaigns agents have an unlimited amount of time to read or preview information about the contact before initiating the outbound dial. When running a preview campaign the agent will see the contact information for the next consumer in the list and any other relevant information that was uploaded for that consumer. The agent can dial that consumer when they are ready or they can choose to skip that consumer… Agents are automatically provided a preview of consumer CRM record in the background when the call is dialed. The agent can also preview the consumer information provided in the campaign file by licking the downward arrow to the right of the consumer's name in the agent adapter. The adapter also provides a link to view the consumer's account in the CRM if the initial preview is no longer displayed in the background. If the consumer answers the call the agent can complete the call enter their notes and then close the call. At this point they will receive the information for the next consumer in the campaign and repeat the process. If the call is not answered or the line is busy the agent will close the call and then receive the information for the next consumer in the campaign. Let's consider a specific use case for the preview campaign type. A small insurance office may consider this a useful tool if an agent has set number of accounts or contacts they need to reach out to at their leisure or a fairly open time frame. In this instance the agent would want to know the contact they are speaking with to maintain the relationship and contextual integrity of their communication. They also wouldn't necessarily be rushing through a giant list of consumers to get to them as quickly as possible. Let's look at the platform to set up a preview campaign. Back under settings campaigns, we will want to make sure that the preview campaign type is enabled…With this option, we really only have two settings to consider here at this level, the DNC list which we'll talk more about in a minute and the time zone management off which again we'll discuss shortly…Once we've ensured that the preview type is on we can click save…Once we are in the campaign manager… space, click add campaign…Again we have to name our campaign …and select the mode we want to use Right now we were talking about preview …We have to upload that campaign list Again the same qualifications apply. We need to make sure we are following all of those directions in the technical documentation… We can assign it to a queue…determine the number of redials and the time interval between attempts and then assign it a time zone and click save. Lastly we have the progressive campaign type This is when an agent is reserved for the consumers on the campaign list. Since the agent is reserved there is no over dialing ratio or adjustments required since the agent is always in a one to one ratio with the consumers. When utilizing a progressive campaign, agents are automatically provided a preview of the consumer CRM record in the background when the call is dialed. The agent can also preview the consumer information provided in the campaign file by clicking the downward arrow to the right of the consumer's name in the adapter also provides a link to view the consumer's account in the CRM if the initial preview is no longer displayed in the background. If the consumer answers the call the agent completes the call enters their notes and ends the call, the next consumer in campaign is then dialed and the agent is provided a preview of the consumer's information. If a call is not answered the next consumer in the campaign is dialed and the agent is again presented with a preview of the consumer's information. For this use case let's imagine car company needs to contact a certain number of car owners about a critical recall that could be a major safety issue. In this scenario progressive campaign might be a good option…This campaign would target users for a specific reason but it doesn't necessarily matter what agent they speak to about it because all the agents will be sharing the same information. To set up a progressive campaign, we will navigate back to settings , campaigns, and enable the progressive option. We should then click save…Now we can go to campaigns…to add a progressive campaign. Click add campaign, name the campaign …and click progressive. You have to upload the campaign list again, assign it to the queue, determine the number of redials the time interval between attempts and the time zone and click save. Here is an example…of a preview campaign that is in progress This will be on that campaign manager page. You'll be able to see the campaign name, the ID number, the queue that the campaign is assigned to, the type of campaign it is…the status …You can take some actions from here. You'll be able to notice the total volume and see the progress bar There's also data and other analytics you can look through here from this page…for more information on that please see the manager facing course in Google Cloud Skills boost. Back under settings, campaigns…there is the company do not call DNC…list setting option. CCAI platform allows you to create your own DNC registry for campaign calls at the company level. If you toggle this on…you can make further decisions about that DNC list You can configure the DNC list to block direct manual and outbound calls as well as outbound and scheduled calls created by the apps API. If an agent attempts to contact an end user on the list they will receive a message that says this call cannot be placed because the phone number is on the company DNC list. The dialer checks the DNC list before dialing each number and skips block numbers. Configured emergency numbers cannot be added to the company DNC list or blocked from outbound calls. For more information on how to modify the settings for the DNC list please see the technical documentation…Finally the time zone management…option. This option simplifies managing different time zone and call time regulations. For example some regions have strict rules for when telemarketing calls are allowed. You can use time zone management settings to configure only calling authorized numbers during permitted time frames. Time Zone Management is based on creating rules and organizing them into schemas…The time zone rule is a rule specifying when an outbound call can be placed This includes time zone , code and time span…As you can see here … Time zone schemas…here on this other tab. This is a set of time zone rules with a unique name you organize and manage time zone settings…If you want to create time zone schema you click this button, enter the name, the time zone, time span or custom time span , and click save… Once that's created, you can add time zone rules or create time own roles that fit in that schema. In CCAI platform, you can leverage the campaigns feature to send… SMS…in bulk…to consumers…To do this you will upload a CSV…This CSV file must include a column named phone number that contains valid phone numbers. All other columns will be skipped. You'll then select an outbound phone number to send the SMS from, and then you will enter the message you want to send. There is a three hundred and twenty character maximum. A character count will be shown as you type…One you have entered all of the necessary information here you can click send to start your SMS campaign…

### Document - [Resources: Campaign Settings and Configuration](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508662)

### Quiz - [Campaigns Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/quizzes/508663)

#### Quiz 1.

> [!important]
> **Let's imagine you are running a political research company. You no longer want an ongoing progressive campaign that is assigned to your "Political Survey" IVR queue calling consumers during EST business hours (9am to 5pm). How could you fix this?**
>
> - [ ] You create a new preview campaign
> - [ ] You create a new progressive campaign
> - [ ] You create a separate queue for them only
> - [ ] You create a time zone management list and apply it to the current campaign

#### Quiz 2.

> [!important]
> **You are currently running a campaign where agents are reserved to take calls after the system places the call. What type of campaign is this?**
>
> - [ ] Preview
> - [ ] Presumptive
> - [ ] Peer
> - [ ] Progressive

#### Quiz 3.

> [!important]
> **You are starting a new campaign in which you will have agents manually dial consumers off a pre-generated list. What type of campaign are you planning to start?**
>
> - [ ] SMS
> - [ ] Preview
> - [ ] Progressive
> - [ ] Whisper

## AI

In this module, you learn how to enable and configure Agent Assist and manage virtual agents.

### Video - [Agent Assist](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/video/508664)

- [YouTube: Agent Assist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vIk3pYY1X3I)

…In this demo you learn to recognize the different features of CCAI platform's agent assist, enable agent assist for calls and chats, and modifying configure agent to settings globally and at the queue level. Turn your agents into AI powered super…agent assist can increase your agent productivity and save your team valuable time by being their second pair of eyes ears and hands. By analyzing conversational context the virtual agent proactively recommends phrases and next best action and provides live agents with relevant knowledge based content and running sentiment analysis in real time. Agent assist can transcribe and even summarize conversations for consumer follow-up analysis and quality assurance. Increase your customer satisfaction with quicker response times and smarter solutions driven by AI. Agent assist voice includes the following features. Knowledge Assist provides appropriate document suggestions to the human agent. The agent can examine suggestions and make a decision about which documents to read or to share with the consumer…The knowledge base for knowledge assist is set up in the Google agent assist console. There is a tutorial that will walk you through the steps to create a knowledge base in Skills boost and the Google console…documentation…Real time call transcription. This transcribes calls in real time for agents to reference during the call or for analysis after the call. Real time sentiment analysis analyzes messages from both a human agent and consumer to determine emotional intent. The score is visible in the agent adapter. And session summarization, this provides the ability to automatically generate session summaries based on the conversation that takes place during a support session, whether it be call or chat. This feature works without having transcription enabled. Agent assist for chat. Smart Compose is the auto completion of chat responses for the agent using conversation context. This feature provides suggestions at the end of what is being typed to help finish the sentence. Smart replies suggest chat responses for the agent using the ongoing chat conversation context. Knowledge assist follows a conversation between a live agent and a consumer and provides the live agent with relevant document suggestions…Real time sentiment analysis evaluates the conversation between a human agent and consumer to determine emotional intent. This analysis is generated in real time to display the sentiment of the present session or as a one time score upon virtual agent escalation. Section summarization…automatically creates a transcript of the agent and consumer conversation after a chat ends. The auto generated summary provides a brief overview of the chat including key discussion points and resolutions or solutions agreed upon. Notes on implementation and developers. Customer developers will work with implementation teams or partners to fully integrate and set up any AI tools you might leverage. The developers on your team and the implementation team can discuss what exactly you want to do with your agent assist profile. For example do you want them to be able to generate knowledge assist? Do you want agents to be able to use smart reply? Based on your responses to those types of questions, they your developers, and the implementation team members can create the conversation profiles to match your desired outcomes in the GCP project. Then those conversation profiles will get added to CC dot ai platform and you can enable them as you like Whatever agent assist…features you utilize. They will be based on conversation profiles built exactly for your business needs. The suggestions utilized by those agent assist features will be highly personal and to your use cases. What we'll cover today in this module will be what happens in CCAI platform. Not how to build those conversation profiles for agent assist. Please discuss that aspect of the feature during your implementation phase and see the agent assist documentation in your Google Cloud console for more information. Let's take a quick look at developer settings for agent assist. Navigate to settings, developer settings and scroll to this agent assist platform section. From here you can onboard new agent assist profiles, edit or remove existing agent assist profiles, and view currently configured profiles. When you are ready to onboard a new agent assist profile, click add platform. You will give this platform a name…A key file uploader option is available when CCAI…conversation profile is selected in this service drop down to see that uploader option we will click create. And now you'll see we can upload the key. To upload a key you will need a JSON service account key from your service account. This will be uploaded here into the platform. For more information on creating and downloading a service account key please create a service account key in the documentation, follow Google recommendations for best practices for storing your key. Admins can only upload one CCAI JSON key per agent assist platform …By clicking this validate keys button it will validate all the conversation profile JSON keys uploaded in the agent assist platform form section. Once you have set up your agent assist platforms here in developer settings, you need to enable agent assist for call and chat at the global level we will start with call. Navigate to settings, call, scroll to…agent assist. If you are using agent assist for calls this toggle must be on. Then you can decide if you want to leverage knowledge assist, sentiment analysis, real time call transcription, and session summarization. You can use all or any of these Whatever you decide click save …Now you can modify at the queue level. Navigate to settings, queue, click on the queue you want to modify. Scroll to the agent assist section. You can decide if you want to enable or disable agent assist for this queue. If you want to enable this you must configure…the agent assist profile prior to being able to toggle that to on. You can select the agent assist platform name You want to leverage for this queue and click save. Once you've done that you can toggle this to on…Once you have enabled agent assist for voice and decided what features of agent assist for voice you want to leverage and set it up globally and did the queue level. Let's talk about what that agent experience will be like. With knowledge assist agents will be alerted to knowledge assist document suggestions when the agent assist icon has a green dot beside it. The agent adapter includes the option to display a transcript of the current call in real time by providing this transcript agents will now be able to refer to previous statements by the consumer …decipher hard to understand responses and view a record of all system events that occur during the call, to act the transcript tab the agent can click the agent assist icon in the adapter. The transcript will include all voice responses from the agent consumer and any other parties added to the call. If you decide to use sentiment analysis…for call this evaluates conversation between a human agent and consumer to determine emotional intent. The analysis is generated in real time to play the sentiment of the present session or as a one time score upon virtual agent escalation. This sentiment feature panel displays on the age adapter during a live session…And if you use session summarization for voice this will be the agent experience upon wrap up. This feature automatically creates a transcript of the agent and consumer conversation…When the call goes into wrap up the session transcript becomes available as an attachment in the notes area of the agent adapter. Agents can also add additional notes related to the call in the disposition notes field. Agents can further improve their notes by using the automatically generated session summary feature which provides a brief overview of the call, including key points discussed with any resolutions or solutions agreed upon. If you want to leverage agent assist for chat, navigate to settings…chat, scroll to agent assist…and toggle this to on. Then you can decide if you want to use sentiment analysis…and or session summarization… Please note that if you are wanting to leverage the other agent assist features like smart reply or smart compose, If those are enabled in the conversation profile in your agent assist console, they will work for your platform. Whatever you decide here click save. Once this is enabled at the global level you can modify it at queue level. Let's go to settings…queue…And I'm gonna click mobile for now but please note that agent assist is available for SMS …Click on the queue you want to modify… Scroll to the agent assist section. In order for you to enable agent assist here you will need to configure it first by selecting the form name and the profile…and clicking save. Once you've configured it you can toggle this to on. When it comes to agent assist for chat we have reviewed the features a little bit but here are some images help you understand the agent experience. Smart composes that auto completion of chat responses for the agent using conversation…context The feature provides suggestions at the end of what is being typed to help finish the sentence. Suggest will appear after the actual type message in a lighter color font which you can see down here. A tab key icon is displayed at the end of the auto complete suggestion. Agents will click on the tab key on their keyboard…to place the suggested auto complete text content in the agent chat entry field. With smart reply, this suggests chat responses for the agent using the ongoing chat conversation context. Suggestions will appear just above the text entry box. Agents can click on the desired option to respond with and it will insert it into the chat conversation with the consumer. Knowledge Assist follows a conversation between a live agent and consumer and provides the live agent with relevant document suggestions…The knowledge assist button is located in the top right hand corner of the agent adapter…a pink circle indicates articles are available agents can click on the icon to show the articles. The icon expands to show a list of articles like you can see here in the image. And agents can click on the share button the square with the arrow after the article to send it to the consumer. Real time sentiment analysis evaluates the conversation between a human agent and consumer to determine emotional intent. The analysis is generated in real time to display the sentiment of the present session or is a one time score upon virtual agent escalation. Sentiment analysis is available for both voice and chat which we've talked about. And here this image is an example of it being utilized with chat. The sentiment feature panel will be displayed in an open state by default for all new chats. The agent can on the x or the sentiment stars icon …here…to open or hide the panel. The analysis displays three scores last session and previous leg. Two dashes will display when no score available. So the last sentiment score for the last consumer response will be here…For session that's the current average sentiment score, and previous leg is the average sentiment score of the previous segment. These two will update in real time…There are three sentiment types neutral happy and negative. Neutral is between forty to seventy five Happy is over seventy five and negative is below thirty. Section summarization automatically creates a transcript of the agent in consumer conversation after a chat ends. The auto generated summary provides a brief overview of the chat including key discussion points and resolutions or solutions agreed upon. The transcript becomes available as an attachment in the notes area of the agent adapter when the chat goes into wrap up which you can see here on the screen. To enhance the accuracy and completeness of their notes agents can also add additional information in the disposition notes field…Once the summary is added agents can save the disposition summary, which will be shared with the CRM or the external storage based on your configuration…In order for this to work please note that disposition notes must be enabled. Overall this feature offers agents a comprehensive an efficient way to manage their chats with consumers ensuring that all important details are recorded and easily accessible …

### Video - [Virtual Agent](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/video/508665)

- [YouTube: Virtual Agent](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=on0TRo553L8)

…In this demo you learn to identify the capabilities of CCAI platform's virtual agents, manage virtual agents and modify and configure virtual agent settings globally and at the Queue level. Many contact centers are turning to AI tools to virtually augment and manage fluctuating interaction volumes. However traditional AI support solutions can feel robotic lack personalization and struggle to deviate from their pre programmed vocabulary…and as a result they're often viewed as an unwelcomed roadblock…Many times they're thought of is a point of frustration that consumers have work around before reaching a live agent. AI powered conversational CX can elevate the consumer experience by offering immediate assistance and self-service capabilities on a twenty four seven basis. They can automate routine tasks for quick resolution so agents can focus on more complex support issues. Generalist designed VA's can support a broader set of requests and are best utilized earlier in the consumer journey to replace the traditional IVR experience or to perform simple lookup tasks like inquiring an order status hours of operation or inventory levels. Specialized VA's however can be designed to support an array of more complex tasks such as processing a product return changing a travel reservation or doctor's appointment or starting an insurance claim. Specialized BA will learn faster and their ability to resolve complex issues will improve with every conversation as they become exposed to relevant conversational input. There are many courses and skills boost and robust documentation on building virtual agents with dialogflow. This module and demo are not meant to show you how to utilize dialogue flow or what to do in that platform to build agents. This is about what happens when you are ready to utilize agents in CCAI platform. For training on dialogflow building VA's custom payload handling and more please see the documentation and other skills boost coursework…Similar to agent assist virtual agents will be built in partnership with your developers and the implementation team that is working on your project. Together they will collaborate to build agents that can be utilized in CCAI platform with the exact specifications you need. They will meet your specific use cases and can be leveraged in the way that works best for you. In your role as admin you are mostly responsible for maintaining the integration of those agents and CCAI platform and assigning them to queues as needed …Let's start with the global settings for VA. Navigate to settings, developer settings and scroll to the virtual agent platform section. Like human agents virtual agents or VA's must be added to the CCAIP…portal and then assigned to queues. You can personify a virtual agent with a name and avatar. Let's practice adding a virtual agent dialogue flow platform. Please note dialogflow CX chat voice legacy and Dialogflow CX voice provide global region support. Click add platform…Give your virtual agent a name…and then select the service. Select Dialogflow…ES to onboard agents built using Dialogflow ES… With the second option select this to onboard agents built using Dialogflow CX …and click create…Now we can edit…and upload our key. CCAIP validates keys based on JSON structure and key validity. A dialogflow agent is fully authenticated only when its key is invalid status …Valid …means all workflows in the platform are valid. If the status is needs attention that means one or more work flows in the platform are invalid and you should replace with valid keys to resolve…in invalid like the one we just created here. Means that all workflows in that platform are invalid. When a platform status is invalid the platform is automatically disabled which you can see here. You should replace invalid keys with valid keys to resolve…If the status is invalid or needs attention, replace the invalid keys by verify the JSON file that you uploaded or generate a new JSON file from Dialogflow. When these configurations are complete your virtual agent platform is ready to work. Once you have uploaded your VA platforms in developer settings you should visit the VA specific settings page, navigate to settings, virtual agent…At the top of the virtual agent page depending on which channels you are using virtual agents for, toggle virtual agents for calls and chats to on or off. Here you can see the virtual agents you have configured. You can add new agents You can edit and delete existing agents. Let's practice adding an agent. Click plus add virtual agent. Task Assistant Assistant is a different VA option that we'll discuss later in the module. For now click customer support…Enter a name …This is the name that is presented when interacting with the virtual agent can be anything you like. This is an opportunity to use a brand mascot or a certain…character name that aligns well with your consumer outreach. It can also be changed later by returning to the virtual agent settings page whenever you would like. You can upload a custom avatar by hovering over the image and clicking update. A file selection screen will appear and once select you can use the built in tool to crop the image…Then you need to select a virtual agent platform. Then you need to select the workflow…workflows represent authenticated dialogue flow agents…Select the channels that you would like to use this agent with…and the menu, whether it's chat for web or mobile, Voice for mobile or IVR…then you can select the languages this virtual agent will use Only languages that have been added under settings languages and messages will appear here as options. If we're doing voice we'll have the option to ensure DTMF support. Whatever we decide, click save. Once those VA's are set up here on this page you can get a quick glance at the VA's and the platform and workflow that's selected for that virtual agent. The menu or channels that they're assigned to the languages they're assigned to and any assigned cues. You can toggle on or off if you don't want to utilize the agent and you can edit and delete here. You also need to visit settings, operation management, and scroll to virtual agent. These questions have to do with CRM behavior. A lot of what will happen with your virtual agent is gonna be related to the CRM decisions you made higher up in operation management, but here you can drill down even more to make different decisions…You can see the first option here we're unable to check because it is related to the settings we've chosen above in operation management. But depending on your configuration, With chats you can assign records, create or updated by virtual agents to assign to a default user or assigned to a specific user and validate , you can choose to create CRM records for chats attended by virtual agents whether all or a certain minimum of messages exchanged. You can decide to close CRM record when session is resolved by a virtual agent…and decide if you want to collect configured custom data in chat sessions…With calls it's many of the same decisions, Again this one isn't showing up as an option just because of what we have configured above, but you can decide if you wanna create CRM records for calls attended by virtual agents , close CRM record when call session is resolved by the VA, collect configured custom data in call sessions, upload virtual agent call recordings to CRM, and upload virtual agent transcripts to CRM. Task assistance is related…to that other VA option we'll talk about later. Now let's go through enabling virtual agents for calls at the queue level. Go to settings, queue, IVR…If you decide to use a virtual agent for this queue you will check the box next to virtual agent and then click edit virtual agent assignments…Here you can select the virtual agent you want to use…and decide if this VA will operate for twenty four hours or if the VA should reflect the queue hours So these queue hours will default to either what you have set globally as your hours of operation or if you have specified a certain hours of operation for this queue, that's what this will designate. With this allow end users to skip the virtual agent this is not a setting that we see many consumers use. This could be something that is configured into your VA profile in dialogue flow so it's unnecessary…to enable this year. You can also decide to pass data parameters. If you want to do that you can enable this. Once you toggle this to on you can add those parameters…and then you can decide if you want to include data parameters passed to VA and metadata files…and or include data parameters passed to VA and CRM records. Whatever you choose at the queue level, click save. If you are in a chat channel the queue level options will look pretty similar. When you're on the queue you want to modify you'll select the VA. You'll decide on the operation hours …You can decide to exclude users from the virtual agent workflow. Identify the CRM custom user segment field…and the value…Again you can decide to pass data parameters and add or modify those parameters here and then decide on your data records at the queue level. Whatever you decide click save. Let's quickly review content cards. Content cards are used to convey concise and visually appealing content in a card like format, making it easy for end users to consume and interact with the presented information. You can use content cards and dialogue flow customizing them with titles subtitles and body text to implement content cards and dialogue flow specific payload type is introduced to handle these cards when messages from end users are received…through the chatbot server. Please see the technical documentation for more information. Once you have followed the steps to enable this feature this is what the end result will look like. In the technical documentation you can find additional information about custom payload handling , custom session variables for custom payload handling, custom payload per VA transfers to phone or SIP endpoints and support for partial response and dialogflow. Again most of this will be for the developers on your team or the implementation team. Most times when virtual agents are set up by those implementation…teams or partners or developers, It is unlikely you will want to modify those settings again, so it's not to break the virtual agent flow.

### Document - [Other AI Features](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508666)

### Document - [Resources: AI: Resources and Documentation](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508667)

### Quiz - [AI Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/quizzes/508668)

#### Quiz 1.

> [!important]
> **When an agent is in a chat and they view the sentiment score at the top of the adapter, what does that indicate?**
>
> - [ ] The emotional intent within the current chat.
> - [ ] The CSAT score for the current chat.
> - [ ] The overall CSAT score for the day.
> - [ ] The sentiment score the agent got on the last chat.

#### Quiz 2.

> [!important]
> **If an agent is using Smart Compose in the chat adapter, what will the feature do?**
>
> - [ ] Automatically complete the entire conversation for the agent using scripts.
> - [ ] Automatically complete responses for the agent using conversation context.
> - [ ] Compose an internal instant message from the agent to a manager.
> - [ ] Compose an email on behalf of the Agent.

#### Quiz 3.

> [!important]
> **If you are using Virtual Task Assistant and the agent moves the caller to a Task Assistant to complete some confidential information, what should the agent do?**
>
> - [ ] Place the caller on hold and send them off to another queue to have the call picked up when they are done with the Virtual Task Assistant.
> - [ ] Stay on the line and when the caller is done, the agent will continue the call with them.
> - [ ] Take another call while the consumer is busy and then make them sit in a queue again when they are done.
> - [ ] Hang up, they are no longer needed on the call.

## Integrations

This module discusses the integration and API possibilities with CCAIP. You learn to maintain integration settings and leverage your implementation project team to configure. 

### Document - [Integrations (Part 1)](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508669)

### Document - [Integrations (Part 2)](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/documents/508670)

## Use Cases and Examples

In this module, you explore various real-life scenarios and have the opportunity to practice your skills.

### Video - [Edit Roles and Permissions](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/video/508671)

- [YouTube: Edit Roles and Permissions](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Kw4TuCo7as)

…Modifying user permissions and CC platform is a frequent task for an admin. In your role you may have to add new agents, assign agents new permissions when they are promoted. To manager or otherwise, delete users create custom permissions for your business and more. In this use case video we'll review how to modify an agents permissions who has recently been promoted to manager…and create a custom permission for a specific manager role that doesn't quite match the default permissions in the system. First let's tackle the agent who has been promoted. You need to navigate to settings, users and teams , and then search for the agent who was promoted. Once you find that agent, you can click the three dots and click edit user …From there scroll to the roles section. And click add. The drop down will show you the default and custom permissions available…for the stem will assume this agent has been promoted to a general manager position and needs that level of permissions. When you're done…you can click update … For the second example we have a manager who needs custom permissions. To create that custom role go to roles and permissions …and click add roles. This new manager is mostly responsible for creating and monitoring campaigns and the SMS channel in terms of reporting queue control and agent and user control. You need to make sure they have all the appropriate access for those features. For their role name we could say it is campaigns and SMS Manager. We can give the label name here … And give it a color…We can even type in a description if we want. Once you've done that you can go through and modify what permissions you want them to have. When you get to a section…like this campaigns, it will give you the page such as campaigns manager. And then you can decide if you want this new manager to just be able to view…or if you also want them to be able to edit. Now on a lot of the different categories you can also decide if you only want them to be able to do the act for assigned queues only. So for instance if this manager was only assigned to queues using campaigns and only assigned to queues leveraging SMS. For some of these options you may want to check that they should only be given the action for assigned queues only. Once you've made the decisions you want for this new role you can click save. Once it has been added to this list you can go back to users and teams, You can search for the manager you want to give this special new permission set to and click the three dots again. Click edit user and then scroll to the roles. And now you can select that new role you want them to have and click update…

### Video - [Add Agents to Teams](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/video/508672)

- [YouTube: Add Agents to Teams](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d44Fpt6iv8E)

... Teams are a flexible way to organize any number of users. Some examples include grouping users together who are skilled for a particular function… a team that may have a leader and members, users that are all in a certain location…and users that are grouped by shift timing. Once users are in a team, those teams can be assigned to queues. And they can also be used to moderate what data you see for reporting. Teams can be assigned managers and those manager assignments may tate what they see in CCAI platform. It's important to note that users can be assigned to multiple teams…team managers will have access to monitoring information of the agents on their team and any subteams. Agents in the subteam of top level team will be assigned to any queues that the top level team is assigned to. And when using teams to assign agents to a queue team managers with agent permissions are also considered assigned to the queue and will be routed calls if in available status. To add an agent to a team click on settings, users and teams. Scroll to the team section. And then click on the team you want to modify. You can also add a new team here. This team is called tier two. It has three agents, and one of those is a manager. You want to add two more agents to the team. Click on add agents and search for them by name…Once you have found the agent you're looking for click the box next to their name and click add. You can repeat this process again to add the other agent. Again searching by name, checking the box next to their name and clicking add …Back on this main screen, you can remove agents from the team or add or delete managers. If you want to delete you can click their name and then click remove from team. Adding team managers is the same process as adding agents. Now this team is ready for you to leverage on any queue.

### Video - [Reassign Teams to Queues](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/video/508673)

- [YouTube: Reassign Teams to Queues](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhL5SvZvh_k)

…Due to changes in contact center volume, many admin have to go in and reassign agents and teams as part of their daily workflow. In this demo you will see how to reassign teams and agents to queues as needed. Of course if you follow the structure of this course you should have queues and agents and teams assigned to those set up queues already. So this will be more the perspective of needing to make changes, not the initial setup. To edit your queue agent or team assignments, navigate to settings, queue, and then click on the appropriate channel For this demo we'll use IVR. Let's say the return queue is experiencing extremely high call volume and estimated wait times are slowly creeping up up up. We want add two other teams to the queue to try and help handle the consumers. We'll click on returns and navigate to the human agents section and click edit human agent assignments. In this space next to the assigned agents, start to type the name of the team you would like to sign to the queue. Once it appears select it and then click save. Now you can go back to settings to make any other…Now let's say that queue begins to calm down but the manager assistance queue becomes really busy. You need to reallocate the team to the other queue And you can decide either you could leave them on the returns queue and also add them to manager assistance or you could remove them from the returns and just add them to manager assistance. Here we're just going to add them to this other queue as well. We'll click on the queue to modify, edit human agent assignments, repeat the process where we start to type the name of the team. Once it appears, we click it and then click save…Now the agents in the tier two team are assigned to both busy queues to help consumers as quickly and efficiently as possible.

### Video - [Configure Hours of Operation](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1029/video/508674)

- [YouTube: Configure Hours of Operation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ODIibguEEi4)

…Your business's hours of operations set the foundation for how your contact center will operate and support consumers. As an admin you may need to modify hours regularly holidays, unexpected emergencies company closures, and more. In this demo, you will practice how to set hours of operation for different channels and queues as well as how to set up a custom holiday schedule. First you can set up your general hours of operation by going to settings, support center details, and the hours of operation section. Here you have the general hours of operation option and you can click the pencil icon to modify. You can choose the time zone for your default hours of operation…then decide if this contact center is a twenty four hour operation …or potentially maybe you want to select weekdays and weekends. This can be used for operations where the week day hours stay the same all week and differ for weekend days…or you can choose the day of the week option , which is helpful if you have different hours on various days of the week. Please note that incoming calls and chats outside of these hours will deflect depending on your settings. For call or chat deflection. Once you have decided on the days and hours of your operation, You can decide which holidays you want to observe for your default general hours…Whichever holidays you choose, add and we will talk more about this in a second to specifically set up a certain holiday folder, but whatever choices you make in this general hours of operation page, click save. Now let's set up a custom hours of operation for the mobile channel specifically. To do that we'll click add hours of operation. We will say this is the mobile channel…The time zone for the mobile channel will be Eastern time zone so we can scroll and select the…time we want to leverage … For the mobile channel, This will be an operation…that is only open on Monday through Friday. Between the hours of six…AM…and six PM …This mobile channel is not going to observe any holidays so we will leave this section blank. And now we can select the assignment for this custom hours of operation. This is just for the mobile channel So we are gonna say it is for mobile. It is for…call and chat within the mobile channel and it will be for all languages. In the mobile channel. We'll click assign…and save…Now in support center details we can see our general hours of operation and we can see the hours we've configured for the mobile channel. Now let's set up a custom hours of operation for the web channel a specific queue only. So we'll scroll back up and click add hours of operation. This will be for the web channel…auto financing queue …This queue is in Pacific Standard Time. It is a…twenty four hour operation …For this queue we're going to put that it observes US holidays…And now we get to specify the exact cue we want to…apply this custom hours of operation. This is a web queue…call and chat both apply. It is for the English language and we search here by name…to get the auto financing…queue…Now these custom hours are applied to auto financing which is a queue path within the web channel. It applies to both call and chat for the English language. And we can click save…Now under hours of operation we have general We have the mobile channel and we have the web channel specific to the auto financing queue. The last topic we'll cover will be setting a custom holiday schedule. To do this you'll click add hours of operation and toggle to the holidays section. By creating folders you can easily organize and manage holiday schedules. For example a folder named company holidays could include all holidays recognized by your company such as Christmas Christmas,, Thanksgiving Thanksgiving, New, Year's Day Day. Another. folder could be named regional holidays for holidays observed in specific regions where the company operates…To create a new folder to group holidays together, click add folder, and gives the folder a name…And then click add…Now we can click on the folder and add holidays to this folder. For the local office in Rome, we can add a holiday. In Rome they honor all saints day…which is always on November first so in this date and time you can select a date range…Or you can select a conditional date. So some holidays will always fall on a specific date of the week not necessarily a date For instance, Easter Monday might be the first Monday after Easter but that day will always change and this would be a good option for this. But for something that's always predictably on the same like All Saint Day in Rome we would want to use this…date range option. This is celebrated on November first …And then the time range would be all day because this is a holiday for all employees. If you want to add a custom message you can click add language…under messaging. Select the message from the drop down list. Can add the desired message for voice and text channels and then click add… If you do not want to add a message, once you have configured the name, the date and time and the time range, you can click add…You can continue this same process to set up all of the local holidays for Rome Italy. And then for custom hours of operation that may be assigned to this specific office in Rome Italy you can apply the Roman holidays folder.

## Your Next Steps

### Badge - [Course Badge](https://www.cloudskillsboost.googleNone)
