---
id: 266
name: 'Digital Transformation with Google Cloud'
type: Course
url: https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266
date: 2025-04-03
datePublished: 2025-01-03
topics: []
---

# [Digital Transformation with Google Cloud](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266)

**Description:**

There's much excitement about cloud technology and digital transformation, but often many unanswered questions.
For example: What is cloud technology? What does digital transformation mean? How can cloud technology help your organization? Where do you even begin?
If you've asked yourself any of these questions, you're in the right place. This course provides an overview of the types of opportunities and challenges that companies often encounter in their digital transformation journey. If you want to learn about cloud technology so you can excel in your role and help build the future of your business, then this introductory course on digital transformation is for you. This course is part of the Cloud Digital Leader learning path.

**Objectives:**

- Explain why and how the cloud revolutionizes businesses.
- Explain general cloud concepts.
- Discuss the benefits and tradeoffs of using Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and Software as a Service (SaaS).

## Course Introduction

In this introduction, you'll explore the course goals and preview each section.

### Video - [Executive Introduction](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519925)

- [YouTube: Executive Introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PVGkEGMdu0)

Some people imagine that the technical capacity to understand the use of the cloud is all you need in order to transform a business. And I think this would be a big mistake. Hello, my name is Vint Cerf. I'm vice president and Chief Internet Evangelist at Google. My primary job is to make sure there is more Internet out there for everyone. But my big interest is making sure the cloud is useful as well. I think if you're concerned about being ready for cloud, you need to understand what its capabilities are, what it can deliver. You don't necessarily have to understand in great detail how it does it, but you have to appreciate what it can do and how much flexibility it offers in terms of new products and services, or transforming ways in which all businesses operate. Without that insight, without that understanding, it's very hard to steer yourself into an advantageous place in the cloud world. If you think a little bit about the scale of the cloud. You'll appreciate that most companies and certainly most individuals would not be capable of investing in and maintaining the computing capacity and data storage capacity of today's clouds. That transformation means that companies have access to facilities they otherwise could not get access to. Failure to at least attend to new technology could be a fatal risk. And that's why we think everyone should be at least aware of what the new technologies are and whether or not they fit into the corporate structure. Let's talk a little bit about leadership. I think most leaders don't need to know in detail how the Internet works, but they have to have a kind of fundamental appreciation for what it means to get access to cloud based technology through the Internet. Think of the Internet and the cloud as an enabling infrastructure that can be purposed in infinite different ways. So it's important that the leaders at least have a conceptual grasp of what these technologies can do for their companies, their products and services. This is not just about technology. It's about how technology is used. And that requires real vision.

### Video - [Course Introduction](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519926)

- [YouTube: Course Introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wFDzHy9ykHc)

There's a lot of excitement about cloud technology and digital transformation. But you might also have many unanswered questions. For example: What is cloud technology? What does digital transformation mean? How does cloud technology help you or your organization? Where do you even begin? If you've asked yourself any of these questions, you're in the right place. At Google Cloud, we want to provide you with the necessary information and tools for success as you begin your journey to the cloud and digital transformation. This course, "Digital Transformation with Google Cloud" was designed to help you: Understand why and how the cloud revolutionizes businesses. Explain general cloud concepts. And identify the benefits and tradeoffs of using IaaS, or infrastructure as a service; PaaS, or platform as a service; and SaaS, or software as a service. You'll begin by defining some important terms that you'll hear throughout the course, and by describing the benefits of adopting cloud technology to digitally transform a business. Next, you'll explore some fundamental cloud concepts. You'll learn how migrating to the cloud affects your organization's flexibility, agility, reliability, and total cost of ownership. You'll also explore the different types of infrastructure and explore various use cases for them. From there, you'll learn about cloud computing models, and the shared responsibility between an organization and its cloud provider in hardware, software, security. Throughout the course you'll be presented with graded knowledge assessments. You must pass these assessments to receive course credit. Okay, let's get started!

## Why Cloud Technology is Transforming Business

This section of the course introduces key terms related to the cloud and digital transformation, the benefits of cloud technology, the differences between on-premises infrastructure, public cloud, private cloud, hybrid cloud, and multicloud, and the drivers and challenges that lead organizations to undergo a digital transformation.

### Video - [Introduction](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519927)

- [YouTube: Introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qdCheh5oroA)

To understand how the cloud is transforming businesses, it's important to learn about the basics of cloud and cloud technology. In this section of the course, you'll explore: key terms related to the cloud and digital transformation, the benefits of cloud technology with regard to an organization's digital transformation, the differences between on-premises infrastructure, public cloud, private cloud, hybrid cloud, and multicloud, and the drivers and challenges that lead organizations to undergo a digital transformation. Let's get started!

### Video - [Innovations, paradigm shifts, and digital transformation](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519928)

- [YouTube: Innovations, paradigm shifts, and digital transformation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2YkjinT7I7Y)

Innovation doesn't come in a linear pattern. It comes in waves. And each of these waves is powered by a breakthrough technology. There was the age of the printing press, the steam engine, electricity, the transportation age, the first computers and, today, data and cloud infrastructure. Each of these inventions triggered thousands of innovations, changing what's possible in life and work. Consider the invention of the printing press. It was revolutionary because it gave everyone access to books, encyclopedias, and even playing cards in their daily lives. It also led to a broader recognition of intellectual property through widely distributed patents, which in turn prepared the world for the first industrial revolution. There was no turning back! Steam-powered engines brought us cars and trains which then radically transformed the transportation industry; allowing businesses to produce and transport goods at scale. The entire Industrial Revolution resulted from new technologies that came together and facilitated new ways of working. In the same way, electricity brought us the light bulb, household appliances and eventually the computer. What the printing press, the steam engine and electricity all have in common is that they're examples of a paradigm shift: a fundamental and irreversible change in the way that humans work and engage with the world. How do these examples relate to cloud technology? Well, we're right in the middle of another paradigm shift: one of digital transformation. Cloud technology is transforming how organizations create value how people work, and ultimately, how people live. It's the catalyst for thousands of innovations that change how we navigate the world, how we interact with media, how we diagnose illness, or how we combat environmental issues. Digital transformation, as a term, has become prominent over the past few years. But what are the key components of a digital transformation, how do they relate to the use of cloud technologies, and why so many organizations pursue it? At Google Cloud, we define digital transformation as when an organization uses new digital technologies, such as public, private, and hybrid cloud platforms to create or modify business processes, culture, and customer experiences to meet the needs of changing business and market dynamics. Organizations choose digital transformation frameworks to foster innovation, generate new revenue streams, , and adapt quickly to market changes and customer needs. Digital transformation helps organizations change how they operate and redefine relationships with their customers, employees, and partners by modernizing their applications, creating new services, and delivering value. For that reason, rapid advances in digital technology are redefining every industry. Many vehicles are now software-driven, and they receive regular updates much like a laptop or phone. In chemistry, big data and artificial intelligence (or AI) facilitates drug discovery. Financial service institutions use cloud's vast computing power to provide better insights than ever before. With smart analytics that are increasingly embedded in everything and devices that generate exponential amounts of data traditional on-premises computing solutions can no longer suffice. As business innovation becomes more driven by software, the IDC FutureScape report predicts that over 50% of all IT spending will go toward digital transformation and innovation by 2024. In fact, IDC also predicts that, by 2025, more than 90% of new enterprise apps will have AI embedded within them. Leading organizations will rely more heavily on AI to launch new business models, create more customized experiences, and optimize operations to reduce costs. Understanding the scale and power of the cloud is more critical than ever before.

### Video - [What is the cloud?](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519929)

- [YouTube: What is the cloud?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I9QEC0M7v50)

So what is the cloud and cloud technology, exactly? And how does it support digital transformation? The cloud is a metaphor for the network of data centers which store and compute information that's available through the internet. Essentially, instead of describing a complex web of software, servers, computers, networks, and security systems, all of that has been combined into one word: "cloud." To better understand the cloud, it might help to explore the different ways organizations can implement their information technology (or IT) infrastructure. The list includes on-premises, private cloud public cloud, hybrid cloud, and multicloud implementations. On-premises IT infrastructure, which is often abbreviated to "on-prem," refers to hardware and software applications that are hosted on-site, located and operated within an organization's data center to serve their unique needs. This implementation is the traditional way of managing IT infrastructure. The benefit of on-premises is that it doesn't require third-party access which gives owners physical control over the server hardware and software and doesn't require them to pay for ongoing access. However, to have the computing power to run their required workloads, organizations must buy physical servers and other infrastructure through procurement processes that can take months. These systems require physical space, typically a specialized room with sufficient power and cooling. After configuring and deploying the systems, businesses then need expert personnel to manage them. This long process is difficult to scale when demand spikes or business expands. Organizations often acquire more computing resources than they actually need, which results in low utilization and high overhead. Cloud computing addresses these issues by offering computing resources as scalable, on-demand services. A private cloud is a type of cloud computing where the infrastructure is dedicated to a single organization instead of the general public. This type is also known as single-tenant or corporate cloud. Typically, an organization has to perform the same kind of ongoing maintenance and management for a private cloud as it would for traditional on-premises infrastructure. A private cloud is hosted within an organization's own private servers, either at an organization's own data center, at a third-party colocation facility, or by using a private cloud provider. Private cloud computing gives businesses many of the benefits of a public cloud—including self-service, scalability, and elasticity—with more customization available from dedicated on-premises infrastructure. Organizations might use private cloud if they have already made significant investments in their own infrastructure or if, for regulatory reasons, data must be kept on-premises or hosted in a certain way. The public cloud is where on-demand computing services and infrastructure are managed by a third-party provider, such as Google Cloud, and shared with multiple organizations or "tenants" through the public internet. This sharing is why public cloud is known as multi-tenant cloud infrastructure, but each tenant's data and applications running in the cloud are hidden from other tenants. You can think of it like an apartment building that's maintained by a property management company. The building has many units and tenants. Each unit might have a slightly different layout, but still has all the amenities a tenant needs to live there. And each unit is locked and private to the tenant who pays for that space. In these lessons, when we refer to "cloud," unless otherwise stated, we're talking about the public cloud. Because public cloud has on-demand availability of computing and infrastructure resources, organizations don't need to acquire, configure, or manage those resources themselves, and they only pay for what they use. There are typically three types of cloud computing service models available in public cloud: The first is infrastructure as a service (IaaS), which offers compute and storage services. The second is platform as a service (PaaS), which offers a develop-and-deploy environment to build cloud apps. And the third is software as a service (SaaS), which delivers apps as services, where users get access to software on a subscription basis. We'll explore these three models in detail later. The final two ways that organizations can implement IT infrastructure is is hybrid cloud or multi-cloud. Although they're not the same, these two terms are often used interchangeably, so let's take a moment to define them. In a hybrid cloud, applications run in a combination of different environments. The most common hybrid cloud example is combining a public and private cloud environment, like an on-premises data center and a public cloud computing environment, like Google Cloud. The term multicloud describes architectures that combine at least two public cloud providers. Organizations might operate a combination of on-premises and multiple public cloud environments, therefore implementing both hybrid and multicloud simultaneously. So, although hybrid cloud and multicloud are related, they aren't interchangeable terms. Today, most organizations embrace a multicloud strategy. According to the "Flexera 2022 State of the Cloud Report,", 89% of respondents reported having a multicloud strategy, and 80% of them take a hybrid approach by combining public and private cloud.

### Video - [The benefits of cloud computing](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519930)

- [YouTube: The benefits of cloud computing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DCg8w-kDNWc)

So, what are the benefits of cloud computing compared to traditional on-premises infrastructure? It's scalable. Cloud computing gives organizations access to scalable resources and the latest technologies on-demand, so they don't need to worry about capital expenditures or limited fixed infrastructure. This can significantly accelerate infrastructure deployment time. It's flexible. Organizations and their users can access cloud services from anywhere scaling services up or down as needed to meet business requirements. It's agile. Organizations can develop new applications and rapidly get them into production, without worrying about the underlying infrastructure. It offers strategic value. Because cloud providers stay updated with the latest innovations and offer them as services to customers, organizations can get more competitive advantages and a higher return on investment—than if they'd invested in soon-to-be obsolete technologies. This lets organizations innovate and try new ideas faster. It's secure. Cloud computing security is recognized as stronger than that in enterprise data centers, because of the depth and breadth of the security mechanisms and dedicated teams that cloud providers implement. Finally, it's cost-effective. No matter which cloud computing service model organizations implement, they only pay for the computing resources they use. They don't need to overbuild data center capacity to handle sudden spikes in demand or business growth, and they can deploy IT staff to work on more strategic initiatives.

### Video - [Real-world examples: Why it’s critical to transform and embrace new technology](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519931)

- [YouTube: Real-world examples: Why it’s critical to transform and embrace new technology](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wk13aSJYazg)

As the world and business change, keeping technology the same instead of being open to transforming is risky for an organization. Let's illustrate this by looking at two examples: one embraces new technology and uses it to their advantage, and the other doesn't. First up is Nintendo. Nintendo has been creating games since 1889! They started with traditional Japanese playing cards, called Hanafuda, which were made possible by the printing press. From there, they have consistently used new technology to transform their business, and become a leader in the gaming industry. They were even among the first to introduce gaming consoles and mobile gaming devices. Still, they didn't just stop after these successes. Instead, they revolutionized mobile gaming when they launched Pokemon Go in 2016, and then the first cloud gaming console—Nintendo Switch—one year later in 2017. At a time when most of their competitors were failing, Nintendo transformed by using one new technology after the next, consistently maintaining and even expanding its market share and customer base along the way. More recently, Nintendo has been using Google Cloud to bring games to smartphones worldwide. So, what makes Nintendo so successful at transforming? The answer is that they consistently focus on "why" they exist, not "how" they operate. They exist because they want people to play, and naturally, they'll use any new technology as a resource to achieve this mission. If they focused on liquid crystal displays as the best tool for gaming, then each new technology would have posed a threat to them. Instead, they utilized liquid crystal displays for a while, and then quickly shifted as the next technology became available to continue motivating people to play. By contrast, companies that sold encyclopedias, for example, all focused on "how" they operate (how to print and sell a specific set of books). And this was what they were proud of: a beautiful set of leather-bound books lined up on the shelves of the finest libraries. And because of their high cost, only a few scholars or the elite could afford them. For businesses that made and sold encyclopedias, they needed printing presses well-kept warehouses, bookshelf makers, a way to ship and receive heavy containers, and a good door-to-door selling model. These companies were so focused on manufacturing books that they lost sight of their initial mission: to capture, catalog, and share human knowledge. When new technology such as CD-ROMs became available, this short-term mindset led many of the original encyclopedia companies to view the technology as a threat to their business instead of an opportunity. Ironically, many of the CD-ROM-based encyclopedia providers made the exact same mistake, and were later overtaken by by cloud-based applications such as Wikipedia or traditional encyclopedia companies, such as Britannica, which moved online. Nintendo and encyclopedia companies were both born from the printing era; Nintendo began with traditional playing cards, and encyclopedias stemmed from hard copy books. Because they reacted to technological innovations differently, they experienced different outcomes. The reality is that digital transformation is an ongoing process, not a one-time effort. Today, countless industries around the world are disrupted by digitalization: from healthcare to entertainment, from retail to manufacturing. It's critical that organizations embrace new technology as an opportunity to evolve, serve their customers better, and gain a competitive advantage. This is where cloud computing plays a significant role.

### Video - [Cloud eras](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519932)

- [YouTube: Cloud eras](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QDOVLNt0KLc)

To understand the cloud computing landscape today and what true digital transformation looks like, we should first understand how we got here. It started with the VM cloud era. VM stands for virtual machine. New organizations, mostly startups, realized that they could forgo ever buying or operating hardware and just start in the cloud. This was a major catalyst for many of the great cloud-native companies that we all rely on today, such as Twitter, Spotify, and PayPal. By the end of this first VM cloud era, very few startups operated their own data centers. Next was the infrastructure cloud era, which is when organizations migrated their IT infrastructure to the cloud. This migration saved costs because infrastructure could scale up and down more quickly and easily. Faster development was possible because companies didn't need long-term infrastructure planning and security was better. Also, reducing the management load on IT staff let organizations direct more people and resources to focus on building new capabilities. In this last decade of the infrastructure cloud, companies that ignored this migration were left trailing behind. Although the return on investment of these early cloud migrations was important, it didn't provide compelling transformative or disruptive results or fundamentally change how people worked outside of IT. This is because digital transformation is more than simply migrating and shifting systems to the cloud for cost saving and convenience. As we look ahead, reinventing the future means changing not only where business is done, but how it is done. It requires maximizing the benefits of the cloud and building an environment that enables every person, process, and technology to bring the highest level of innovation to the business. This is what brings us to the transformation cloud era, where organizations are not just making infrastructure decisions, but are truly focusing on transforming. Digitalization is now fundamental, and this era is about spreading transformation among all teams in an organization. To facilitate this degree of constant innovation and progress, today's most ambitious organizations are building transformation clouds. A transformation cloud is a new approach to digital transformation. It provides an environment for app and infrastructure modernization, data democratization people connections and trusted transactions. It's built on an easy-to-use platform with customized industry solutions that gives organizations the confidence that they are saving money and creating a more sustainable future for everyone. The result is an organization that benefits from cloud computing to drive innovation, generate new revenue streams, and adapt quickly to market changes and customer needs.

### Video - [Challenges that lead to a digital transformation](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519933)

- [YouTube: Challenges that lead to a digital transformation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jb1DeyLX0GQ)

A major indicator for organizations that are accelerating their innovation is how they think about transformation. Instead of asking infrastructure questions about where their apps and services should run, they ask transformation questions about how to build an environment that helps every person, process, and technology to adapt to changing business needs. So, what are the types of problems and questions that make organizations undergo a digital transformation? At Google, when we talk to our customers about their biggest business challenges and what they need to accelerate digital transformation, we consistently hear five themes. First, they want to be the best at understanding and using data. Today, organizations must unify data across streams, lakes, warehouses, and databases so that they can quickly and easily break down data silos, generate real-time insights, and make better business decisions; thus reducing cost and inefficiencies. Second, they want the best technology infrastructure. Organizations are looking for a cloud platform that will serve as their foundation for growth and has the flexibility to innovate securely and adapt quickly based on market needs. Third, they want to create the best hybrid workplace. The fundamental shift in how and where we work requires new, stronger connections and collaboration, and many interactions that took place in person have been digitized. This change requires more intentional connections and collaboration. Fourth, it's critical for organizations to know that their data, systems, and users are secure. The digital world is seeing more severe security issues, so now companies are rethinking their security posture. They must find ways to identify and protect everything from people customers customers to data and transactions in a fast-changing environment. Finally, organizations are prioritizing sustainability as a critical, board-level topic. They want to create a more sustainable future through products and services that minimize environmental impact. These are the top drivers for digital transformation that we see, and the challenges that many organizations face as they navigate their journey.

### Video - [Google’s Transformation Cloud](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519934)

- [YouTube: Google’s Transformation Cloud](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDeZWFu2-NQ)

SPEAKER: There are five primary capabilities that form the basis of the transformation cloud. They are data, open infrastructure, collaboration, trust, and sustainable technology and solutions. Let's explore each, starting with the data. Data is the key to unlocking value from AI, making it critical for innovation and differentiation. But becoming a data-driven company can be difficult, if data sets are siloed across operational and analytical data stores. According to the NewVantage Partners' Data and AI Executive Survey 2022, only 26.5% of companies have succeeded in creating a data driven organization to realize tangible and measurable value from their data. A data cloud is a unified solution to manage data across the entire data life cycle, regardless of whether it sits in Google Cloud or in other clouds. It lets organizations identify and process data with great scale, speed, security, and reliability. Leading companies like Ford, Spotify, Wayfair, and UPS use a data cloud to encourage data-driven transformation quickly, securely, and at scale, all with AI built-in. Next up is the open infrastructure. Organizations choose to modernize their IT systems on Google's open infrastructure Cloud because it gives them freedom to securely innovate and scale from on-premises to edge, to cloud on an easy, transformative, and open platform. Open infrastructure Cloud brings Google Cloud services to different physical locations while leaving the operation, governance and evolution of the services to Google Cloud. Instead of relying on a single service provider or closed technology stack, today most organizations want the freedom to run applications in the place that makes the most sense, using hybrid and multi-cloud approaches based on open source software. An open Infrastructure cloud facilitates fast innovation and reduces lock in to a single cloud provider by giving organizations the choice and flexibility to build, migrate and manage your applications across on-premises and multiple clouds. Let's take a moment to define two terms that are often confused. Open standard and open source. Open standard refers to software that follows particular specifications that are openly accessible and usable by anyone. They have guidelines for software functionality, which help avoid vendor lock in and ensure that the products that use these standards perform in an interoperable way. Examples of open standards are HTTP for requesting content on the web, or XML for storing structured data. Open source refers to software whose source code is publicly accessible and free for anyone to use, modify, and share. A decentralized community generally develops open-source software as a public collaboration, based on the philosophy of transparency and the open exchange of ideas. Open source plays a critical role in an open cloud to deliver customers the portability they expect. Google has a long history of sharing technology through open source, from projects like Kubernetes, which is now the industry standard in container interoperability in the cloud, to TensorFlow, a platform to help everyone develop and train machine learning models. Another way we provide flexibility is through hybrid and multi-cloud environments managed by products like Anthos, which is built on open technologies like Kubernetes, Istio and Knative. And finally, an open infrastructure embraces a partner ecosystem and the breadth of solutions it can offer to its customers instead of competing with it. Collaboration helps transform how people connect, create, and collaborate. A transformation cloud isn't just about technology, people and culture are just as important. Organizations have increased both location and time flexibility in work arrangements since the COVID 19 pandemic began, and hybrid work is here to stay. With the definition of the workplace forever changed, it's essential that information and frontline workers across regions and industries connect, create, and collaborate securely from anywhere and on any device. This new hybrid work environment needs to support a mix of in-person and remote interactions, including immersive digital and mobile experiences. At Google, for example, we offer a collaboration cloud through Google Workspace. Workspace brings together communication and collaboration apps including Gmail, Chat, Calendar, Drive, Docs, Sheets, and Meet into a people first experience powered by Google AI. A trusted cloud helps organizations protect what's important with advanced security tools. According to Cybersecurity Ventures, the annual cost of cybercrime is expected to reach $10.5 trillion annually by 2025. Due to the rise of cybersecurity threats, every company is rethinking its security posture. This means finding ways to identify and protect everything from people and customers to data and transactions in a fast changing environment. Organizations see the cloud as more secure than on premises, and they want to make it simple so that employees, customers, and contractors can safely access their services. They want to create better visibility to find, analyze, resist, and remediate threats at global scale and benefit from cloud innovations while maintaining control of their digital assets. Finally, a transformation cloud is built on a sustainable foundation, using technology and solutions that help organizations build and work more sustainably. Today, organizations are now encouraged to help create a cleaner, more sustainable world, and they need new technologies that help them progress consistently. According to IDC, cloud computing is estimated to save 1 billion metric tons of CO2 emissions by 2024. The largest corporations have the opportunity to lead the way in helping the world reduce its emissions and operate on carbon-free energy, always. For that reason, companies are moving to the cloud, and they want a sustainable infrastructure to power their business. At Google Cloud, for example, we partner with customers to decarbonize their digital apps and infrastructure with our sustainable technology and solutions. We proudly operate as a clean cloud with the smartest data centers that are two times as energy efficient as a typical enterprise data center. Moving to Google Cloud can dramatically decrease a customer's IT-related carbon footprint.

### Video - [The Google Cloud Adoption Framework](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519935)

- [YouTube: The Google Cloud Adoption Framework](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TsltAbpK_og)

So how can organizations approach their cloud journey? Moving to the cloud offers enormous benefits for transforming businesses. Yet there are also risks. The challenge is multi-dimensional, with far reaching implications for the solutions that will run in the cloud and also for the technologies that support them. The people who must implement them and the processes that govern them. The rubric of people, process, and technology is a familiar one. It forms the basis of the Google Cloud Adoption Framework, which was created to support customers on their cloud journey. The value of the Google Cloud adoption Framework is that it serves as a map to help organizations adopt the cloud quickly and effectively by creating a comprehensive action plan for accelerating cloud adoption. It does this by structuring and aligning short term tactical, mid-term, strategic, and long term transformational business objectives. It provides a solid assessment of where an organization is in its cloud journey and actionable programs that get it to where it wants to be. A cloud maturity assessment helps to establish where an organization is currently regarding the cloud adoption themes recognized by Google Cloud. It can quickly reveal any areas where an organization might be weaker or underinvested. This is especially powerful if an organization was previously unaware of this lack of maturity. The Google Cloud adoption framework is more than just a model. It's also a map to real, tangible tasks that organizations need to adopt the cloud. After cloud maturity has been assessed and actions have been recommended, it's easy to scope and structure a cloud adoption program using the framework.

### Video - [Summary](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519936)

- [YouTube: Summary](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZTndBNbcgj8)

This brings us to the end of the first section of the Digital Transformation with Google Cloud course. Let's do a quick review of how cloud technology is transforming businesses. Digital transformation is more than lifting and shifting old I.T. infrastructure to the cloud for cost saving and convenience. As we look ahead, reinventing the future means changing not only where business is done, but how it is done. It requires maximizing the benefits of the cloud and building an environment that lets every person, process and technology bring the highest level of innovation to the business. We already see tremendous success with leading organizations that embrace the transformation cloud, move their businesses well beyond infrastructure, and rapidly migrate toward the next era of their cloud evolution.

### Quiz - [Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/quizzes/519937)

#### Quiz 1.

> [!important]
> **Select the definition of digital transformation.**
>
> - [ ] When an organization uses new digital technologies to create or modify financial models for how a business is run.
> - [ ] When an organization uses new digital technologies to create or modify on-premises business processes.
> - [ ] When an organization uses new digital technologies to create or modify business processes, culture, and customer experiences.
> - [ ] When an organization uses new digital technologies to create or modify technology infrastructure to focus on cost saving.

#### Quiz 2.

> [!important]
> **As the world and business changes, organizations have to decide between embracing new technology and transforming, or keeping their technology and approaches the same. What risks might an organization face by not transforming as their market evolves?**
>
> - [ ] Organizations risk losing market leadership if they spend too much time on digital transformation.
> - [ ] Focusing on 'why' they operate can lead to inefficient use of resources and disruption.
> - [ ] Embracing new technology can cause organizations to overspend on innovation.
> - [ ] Focusing on 'how' they operate can prevent organizations from seeing transformation opportunities.

#### Quiz 3.

> [!important]
> **What is seen as a limitation of on-premises infrastructure, when compared to cloud infrastructure?**
>
> - [ ] Scaling processing is too difficult due to power consumption.
> - [ ] The on-premises networking is more complicated.
> - [ ] Maintenance workers do not have physical access to the servers.
> - [ ] The on-premises hardware procurement process can take a long time.

#### Quiz 4.

> [!important]
> **An organization has made significant investments in their own infrastructure and has regulatory requirements for their data to be hosted on-premises. Which cloud implementation would best suit their needs?**
>
> - [ ] Platform as a service
> - [ ] Software as a service
> - [ ] Private Cloud
> - [ ] Public Cloud

#### Quiz 5.

> [!important]
> **What is the cloud?**
>
> - [ ] A metaphor for the networking capability of internet providers.
> - [ ] A Google product for computing large amounts of data.
> - [ ] A metaphor for a network of data centers.
> - [ ] A Google product made up of on-premises IT infrastructure.

#### Quiz 6.

> [!important]
> **Which item describes a goal of an organization seeking digital transformation?**
>
> - [ ] Break down data silos and generate real time insights.
> - [ ] Reduce emissions by using faster networks in their on-premises workloads.
> - [ ] Streamline their hardware procurement process to forecast at least a quarter into the future.
> - [ ] Ensure better security by decoupling teams and their data.

#### Quiz 7.

> [!important]
> **An organization has a new application, and user subscriptions are growing faster than on-premises infrastructure can handle. What benefit of the cloud might help them in this situation?**
>
> - [ ] It's scalable, so the organization could shorten their infrastructure deployment time.
> - [ ] It's secure, so the organization won't have to worry about the new subscribers data.
> - [ ] It provides physical access, so the organization can deploy servers faster.
> - [ ] It's cost effective, so the organization will no longer have to pay for computing once the app is in the cloud.

#### Quiz 8.

> [!important]
> **What is the benefit of implementing a transformation cloud that is based on open infrastructure?**
>
> - [ ] Open standards make it easier to hire more developers.
> - [ ] Open source software makes it easier to patent proprietary software.
> - [ ] Open source software reduces the chance of vendor lock-in.
> - [ ] On-premises software isn't open source, so cloud applications are more portable.

#### Quiz 9.

> [!important]
> **Select the two capabilities that form the basis of a transformation cloud? Select two correct answers.**
>
> - [ ] Data cloud provides a unified solution to manage data across the entire data lifecycle.
> - [ ] Collaboration cloud ensures that the device a user connects with only works on the corporate network.
> - [ ] A trusted cloud gives control of all resources to the user to ensure high availability at all times.
> - [ ] Open infrastructure gives the freedom to innovate by running applications in the place that makes the most sense.
> - [ ] Sustainable cloud ensures the costs of cloud resources are controlled to prevent budget overrun.

## Fundamental Cloud Concepts

To understand the impact that the cloud can have on a business, it's important to become familiar with fundamental cloud concepts. In this section of the course, you'll differentiate between a solution and a product, compare CapEx and OpEx, explore infrastructure options, and define network terminology.

### Video - [Introduction](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519938)

- [YouTube: Introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JaR0BaZRda0)

To understand the impact that the cloud can have on a business, it's important to first recognize some of the fundamental cloud concepts. By the end of this section, you'll be able to: Describe the benefits of moving to cloud infrastructure through customer business use cases. Explain how moving to the cloud shifts an organization's spending from capital expenditure to operational expenditure, and how that affects their total cost of ownership. Identify when private, hybrid, or multicloud infrastructures best apply to different business use cases. Define basic network infrastructure terminology. And explain how Google Cloud supports digital transformation with global infrastructure and data centers connected by a fast, reliable network. Cloud adoption has made a positive impact on some of the world's leading companies across various industries. Let's start with an example of how the cloud provided flexibility and improved performance for the Canadian food and pharmacy leader Loblaw. Loblaw is Canada's largest retailer, with nearly 2,500 corporate, franchised, and associate-owned locations and nearly 200,000 full- and part-time employees. The Vice President of Technology at Loblaw explained: "We want our tech talent focused on creating better experiences for our customers, not maintaining infrastructure. " Loblaw took a lift-and-shift approach to accelerate the initial migration to Google Cloud. This means they focused on moving their existing virtual machines on-premises to Compute Engine instances in the cloud without needing to redesign them. However, they designed the cloud architecture to be easily converted to using Google Kubernetes Engine for automated deployment and scaling later. This shows how an open cloud can grow with an organization's needs. With a more responsive ecommerce site and the ability to handle more traffic without affecting the customer experience, Loblaw could run marketing promotions and generate additional revenue. With these improvements, they expect to reclaim 50% of their Site Reliability Engineers' time to focus on innovation. Now let's shift our focus to another example, this time on how the cloud provided scalability and cost reduction. HSBC is one of the world's largest banking and financial services organizations, serving more than 40 million global customers from offices in 64 countries and territories. Committed to a cloud-first strategy, in January 2021, HSBC embarked on an ambitious project to enhance and future-proof their risk management on the cloud. Their previous on-premises system was not capable of meeting future regulatory and business demands. HSBC built a cloud-native risk management solution that boosts calculation speed to be ten times faster while lowering costs. This equated to three billion calculations per second. The power of a data cloud is that it has almost unlimited resources to process large volumes of data and reduce time to insights. A Global Head of Traded Risk Technology at HSBC explains, "We knew that a cloud-native solution gave us the ability to scale and run at a reduced cost. We did a proof of concept using Google Cloud, and we quickly realized that this could be very successful." HSBC built a cost-effective platform that is faster and more efficient while meeting their regulatory and compliance requirements. And in a final example, let's look at how the cloud has brought agility and valuable insights, while maintaining trust, to an organization. The American Cancer Society is a community-based voluntary health organization dedicated to eliminating cancer as a major health problem. Their mission is to free the world from cancer by funding and conducting research, sharing expert information, supporting patients, and spreading the word about prevention. Among women, breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed type of cancer. Yet, if detected early, it's also one of the most survivable cancers. Mia M. Gaudet, PhD, is the Scientific Director of Epidemiology Research at the American Cancer Society. Through her research, she's obtained over 1,700 high-resolution tissue images from participants diagnosed with breast cancer. This valuable data could help them discover factors that could lead to a cancer diagnosis and improve survival rates. The challenge was to identify novel patterns in digital images of breast cancer tissues to potentially improve patient outcomes. Their research group partnered with Slalom, a Google Cloud Premier Partner, and sought to combine machine learning–powered insights with cloud computing performance to improve timeliness and accuracy. By building a machine learning pipeline using Google Cloud AI Platform, now called Vertex AI, they trained models for AI image analysis of tissue scans to find cancer indicators. The team achieved 12 times faster image analysis with enhanced quality and accuracy by removing human limitations. Dr. Gaudet said, "The ability to perform image analysis by using deep learning for epidemiologic breast cancer studies opens a new frontier of research, and Google Cloud makes it easier. We're excited about what we'll find." The American Cancer Society is now equipped with processes and a cloud infrastructure that will be reusable on similar projects, providing a foundation for future work.

### Video - [Total cost of ownership (TCO)](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519939)

- [YouTube: Total cost of ownership (TCO)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9t--ydJNnbM)

Organizations often perform a cloud total cost of ownership (or TCO) analysis when they are considering moving to the cloud. This analysis aims to weigh the cost of cloud adoption against the cost of running their current on-premises systems. For on-premises, TCO is associated with assessing the cost of static resources throughout their lifetime. However due to the dynamic nature of the cloud, predicting future costs can be challenging. A common mistake that organizations make when attempting to calculate cloud TCO is to directly compare the running costs of the cloud against their on-premises system. These costs are not equivalent. The cost of on-premises infrastructure is dominated by the initial purchase of hardware and software, but cloud computing costs are based on monthly subscriptions or pay-per-use models. It's also important to consider all the operational costs of running your own data center, such as power, cooling, maintenance, and other support services. A data center is a building or facility that houses a large amount of IT infrastructure, computing, and storage resources in one place. Finally, intangible costs, such as the opportunity cost of not migrating to cloud and the missed benefits, should be considered.

### Video - [Capital expenditures (CapEx) versus operating expenses (OpEx)](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519940)

- [YouTube: Capital expenditures (CapEx) versus operating expenses (OpEx)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=946ZHii6Ack)

One area where cloud differs from traditional IT is in how managing costs changes when you move to the cloud. With organizations moving from on-premises infrastructure to on-demand cloud services, there's a major shift in spending from capital expenditures to operating expenses. But what's the difference between these two? Capital expenditures, or CapEx, are upfront business expenses put toward fixed assets. Organizations buy these items once, and they benefit their business for many years. For example, in IT, these expenditures might mean buying hardware like servers, printers, or cooling systems. Maintaining these assets is also considered CapEx because it extends their lifetime and usefulness. Small businesses can find CapEx spending challenging because large one-time purchases are often high cost. The more money you put toward CapEx means less free cash flow for the rest of the business. And then there are operating expenses, or OpEx, which are recurring costs for a more immediate benefit. This represents the day-to-day expenses to run a business. In IT, these expenses might be yearly services like website hosting or domain registrations, or the subscription fee for cloud services. OpEx covers the spendings on pay-as-you-go items, but are not considered major long-term investments like CapEx items. Understanding the difference between CapEx and OpEx is helpful in recognizing how costs differ between on-premises and the public cloud. In the on-premises CapEx model, cost management and budgeting are a one-time operational process completed annually. Data centers require a huge CapEx investment up front as organizations purchase space, equipment, and software and hire a workforce to run and maintain everything. Forecasting is based on a metric such as historic growth to determine the needs for the next month, quarter, year, or even multiple years. Moving to cloud's on-demand OpEx model enables organizations to pay only for what they use and only when they use it. Budgeting is no longer a one-time operational process completed annually. Instead, spending must be monitored and controlled on an ongoing basis due to the dynamic nature of cloud use within organizations. How infrastructure is procured has radically changed, too. In a more decentralized cloud world, any employee can create resources in seconds on infrastructure owned and managed by a cloud provider. Organizations save on power, cooling, and floor space; they save on management because they don't have to install, operate, upgrade, and troubleshoot it themselves. And they're not depreciating the equipment—the cloud provider is. Cloud gives organizations the ability to start small and grow organically instead of having to guess at what is needed next week, next month, and next year. Costs match actual usage and are now operational expenses.

### Video - [Private cloud, hybrid cloud, and multi-cloud strategies](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519941)

- [YouTube: Private cloud, hybrid cloud, and multi-cloud strategies](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p-12425EuTg)

It's not always possible, or necessary, for an organization to rely solely on the cloud. For example, requirements might call for on-premises infrastructure to work with public cloud services provided by companies, like Google Cloud. With the availability of different cloud options and configurations, it's important to understand what each means. Let's explore the definitions of private, hybrid, and multi-cloud, and when an organization might choose each approach. Let's begin with private cloud, which is when an organization has virtualized servers in its own data centers, or those of a private cloud provider, to create its own private dedicated environment. On-premises servers are also often referred to as private clouds, but generally the distinction can be made that on-premises software runs in a local environment, whereas a private cloud is accessed through the internet. Private cloud computing gives an organization many of the benefits of a public cloud — including self-service, scalability, and elasticity — with more customization available than from dedicated on-premises infrastructure. This approach is often used when an organization has already made significant infrastructure investments, or if, for regulatory reasons, data must be kept on-premises. In contrast, a hybrid cloud is one in which applications are running in a combination of different environments. The most common example is combining a private and public cloud environment, like an on-premises data center, and a public cloud computing environment like Google Cloud. Finally, there's multicloud, which describes architectures that combine at least two public cloud providers, such as Google Cloud, Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, or others. An organization might choose multicloud if they want to take advantage of the key strengths of different public cloud providers. Organizations may also operate a combination of on-premises and multiple public cloud environments, effectively being both hybrid and multicloud simultaneously. A hybrid cloud approach is one of the most common infrastructure setups today because organizations can continue to use their on-premises servers while also taking advantage of public cloud. According to Gartner, 81% of organizations are working with two or more public cloud providers. Additionally a Flexera state of the cloud report showed 93% of enterprises have a multicloud strategy. So, what is a hybrid or multicloud strategy used for? Let's explore some different business requirements, drivers, and use cases that lead an organization to choose this kind of approach. Access to the latest technologies Running workloads in multiple clouds empowers organizations to leverage the latest innovations and capabilities from each cloud provider, thus taking a best-in-class approach to cloud features and obtaining the scale, security, and agility to innovate fast. Cloud can help organizations build out capabilities, such as advanced analytics services, that might be difficult, or impossible, to implement in existing environments Modernize at the right pace With a hybrid cloud, organizations can migrate applications to the cloud at the pace that makes sense for their business and transform their technical infrastructure over time. Improved return on investment By adding a public cloud provider to their existing on-premises infrastructure, organizations can expand their cloud computing capacity without increasing their data center expenses. This can help reduce CapEx or general IT spending, and improve transparency regarding costs and resource consumption. Flexibility through choice of tools Hybrid and multi-cloud strategies have advantages for organizations as a whole, but specifically benefit development teams that are working on different projects and tackling unique challenges across different lines of business. A wider choice of tools and developer talent can be applied to a particular business problem, which means responding better to changing market demands. It also avoids vendor lock-in concerns. Improve reliability and resiliency Organizations can distribute core workloads across multiple cloud and on-premises infrastructures to reduce downtime and and concerns about over-dependence on a single source of failure. This approach can improve the quality and availability of a service. Maintain regulatory compliance Many industries have rules from governmental or regulatory bodies regarding where their app can operate. Adopting a hybrid solution is an effective way for an organization to ensure compliance with regional data governance, residency, or digital sovereignty requirements. Running apps on-premises Organizations may have regulated applications that must remain on-premises or mainframe systems that are difficult to move to the cloud. A hybrid approach provides the freedom to innovate while still meeting And finally, running apps at remote edge locations Organizations in industries that run distributed apps at remote locations, such as kiosks in retail or networks in telecom, can benefit from hybrid cloud. These apps often require improved performance and low latency, and a hybrid approach lets them run select apps at the network edge.

### Video - [How a network supports digital transformation](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519942)

- [YouTube: How a network supports digital transformation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OnhHm_3ryvA)

Digital transformation has increased the importance of the network. The ability to connect customers, employees, cloud applications, and devices enables modern organizations to succeed. With every innovation, the underlying apps and services rely on the network to communicate and connect. But how does a reliable networking architecture support a digital transformation strategy? A fast, reliable, and low-latency global network ensures exceptional user experience and high performance. It also makes it easier to communicate and manage data globally. With ever more distributed workforces and online businesses, having virtual network services that can easily scale without adding hardware ensures that organizations can adapt. So, how does a network operate? Let's start with the foundation of the modern internet: fiber-optic networks. Fiber-optic cables contain one or more optical fibers, which are thin strands made of glass or plastic. These fibers are used to transmit data as pulses of light over long distances. Subsea fiber-optic cables carry 99% of international network traffic, yet we barely notice they exist. The first subsea cable was deployed in 1858 for telegraph messages between Europe and North America. A message took over 17 hours to deliver, at 2 minutes and 5 seconds per letter by Morse code. Today, a single cable can deliver a whopping 340 Terabits per second. That's more than 25 million times faster than the average home internet connection! Every shared video, sent email, and downloaded app depends on data traffic that moves through international network infrastructure. But how is this content available to people within milliseconds? A rich ecosystem of companies and local providers build a global infrastructure that provides businesses and people around the world with the best possible internet experience. These include companies like internet service providers (or ISPs). ISPs provide access to the internet to both personal and business customers, handling the traffic between the customer and the internet as a whole. Some examples of ISPs include Verizon, Vodafone, and Softbank. The infrastructure that makes Google's global reach possible is our network of fiber-optic cables that run on both land and sea. This network connects our data centers and points of presence like highways connect major cities. Google owns and operates data centers all over the world. In these Google data centers, products like Search, Gmail, YouTube, and Google Cloud are run for people and organizations around the world, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Within this vast global network, how do all the different parts recognize and communicate with each other? There are protocols that make it work. Let's start with an IP address. The IP stands for Internet Protocol, and this address is a series of numbers that can identify a network or the location of a particular device on a network. A domain name is an easy-to-remember name that maps directly to an IP address or set of IP addresses on the internet. It's the unique name that appears after the @ sign in email addresses and after www. in web addresses. For instance, the domain name example.com might translate to the IP address 198.102.434.8. Other examples of domain names are google.com and youtube.com. And then there's a Domain Name System, or a DNS. A DNS server stores a database of domain names mapped to IP addresses that can be queried and used by computers to communicate with each other. This system is like the phone book of the web. Every time you visit a website, your computer performs a DNS lookup. A phone book translates a name like "Acme Pizza" into the correct phone number to call; similarly, the DNS translates a web address like "www.google.com" into the IP address of the computer hosting that site. In this case, it's the Google homepage.

### Video - [Network performance: Bandwidth and latency](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519943)

- [YouTube: Network performance: Bandwidth and latency](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jvI9vNBKnBs)

Now that you've been introduced to some of the fundamentals of networking, let's explore how networks perform and are measured. Two important terms in networking are bandwidth and latency. Let's define them both. Bandwidth is a measure of measure of how much data a network can transfer in a given amount of time. This ​​rate of data transfer is typically measured in terms of "megabits per second" (or Mbps) or "gigabits per second" (or Gbps). Generally speaking, a higher bandwidth allows a computer to download information from the internet more quickly. One way to think of bandwidth is to picture water flowing through a pipe. The bandwidth would be the volume of water a pipe can handle flowing through per second. A wider pipe can handle more water. An internet service provider may provide a home internet connection with 100 MegaBits per second to over 1 GigaBit per second; a data center may have with bandwidth from 10 to 100 GigaBits per second! Having a high bandwidth is useful when sending a large amount of data per second, such as streaming high-definition video, but it's not the only important measure of network performance. For example, for users playing real-time multiplayer games online, latency will matter much more. For example, for users playing real-time multiplayer games online, latency will matter much more. Network latency is the amount of time it takes for data to travel from one point to another. Often measured in milliseconds, latency, sometimes called lag, describes delays in communication over a network. Going back to our flowing water analogy, latency is the delay from the moment the water pipe is opened until water starts flowing through. Ideally, latency should be as close to zero as possible. However, because it's a result of the physical distance that data must travel – through wires, fiber optics, routers, and more – to reach its destination, each "hop" along the way adds a small amount of latency to the communication. No matter how much data you can send and receive at once, it can only travel as fast as network latency allows. Imagine an image file took just 10 milliseconds to download with a high-bandwidth connection, but a user had to wait 100 milliseconds before receiving the first byte of data. In this case, the latency, or how much time it took for data packets to travel from one point to another in the network, accounted for most of the time. Cloud computing and mobile technologies have made it easier for developers to reach global audiences, but high latency can drag down an application's performance. Websites run slower for some users depending on their physical location, even if both the user and the server have excellent bandwidth. So the farther a user is from a server, or the more fragmented the network is, the bigger the latency. Reducing latency is essential to reaching users faster.

### Video - [Google Cloud regions and zones](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519944)

- [YouTube: Google Cloud regions and zones](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UEBAVjeXol4)

Google has invested billions of dollars over the years to build its network, which is one of the largest networks of its kind on Earth. It's designed to give customers the highest possible throughput and lowest possible latencies for their applications. Google Cloud's infrastructure is based Google Cloud's infrastructure is based in five major geographic locations: North America, South America, Europe, Asia, and Australia. Having multiple service locations is important because choosing where to locate applications affects qualities like availability, durability, and latency, the latter of which measures the time a packet of information takes to travel from its source to its destination. Each of these locations is divided into several different regions and zones. Regions represent independent geographic areas and are composed of zones. For example, London, or europe-west2, is a region that currently comprises three different zones. A zone is an area where Google Cloud resources are deployed. For example, if you launch a virtual machine using Compute Engine it will run in the zone that you specify to ensure resource redundancy. You can run resources in different regions. This is useful for bringing applications closer to users around the world, and also for protection in case there are issues with an entire region, such as a natural disaster. Some of Google Cloud's services support placing resources in what we call a multi-region. For example, Cloud Storage lets you place data within the Europe multi-region. That means it's stored redundantly in at least two geographic locations, separated by at least 160 kilometers within Europe like London and Belgium. You can find the most up-to-date numbers for Google Cloud regions and zones at cloud.google.com/about/locations.

### Video - [Google’s edge network](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519945)

- [YouTube: Google’s edge network](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBxjTyMKWCg)

A recommended best practice for organizations is to keep their traffic on Google's private network for most of its journey, using the same network that powers products like Gmail, Google Search and YouTube allows organizations to take advantage of the performance that global infrastructure provides. When a user opens a Google app or Web page, Google responds to that request from an edge network location that will provide the lowest latency. Understanding Google's Edge Network and how it maintains caches that store popular content near its users helps organizations choose when to hand off traffic to Google. A network's edge is defined as a place where a device or an organization's network connects to the Internet. It's called "the edge" because it's the entry point to the network. Google's Edge Network is how we connect with ISPs to get traffic to and from users. It's made up of network infrastructure that organizations can hand off traffic to based on users needs, performance and cost. Google aims to deliver its services with high performance, high reliability and low latency for users. We have invested in network infrastructure that's aligned with this goal and that also allows us to exchange traffic efficiently and cost effectively with network operators. This is how network infrastructure supports digital transformation.

### Video - [Summary](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519946)

- [YouTube: Summary](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4BEHKvaPMpg)

This brings us to the end of the second section of the Digital Transformation with Google Cloud course. Let's do a quick review of some fundamental cloud concepts. We covered examples of how customers from different industries were able to transform their business through creating new ways of working when moving to the cloud. Calculating the total cost of ownership differs greatly from the static and long term procurement on premises world to the more dynamic and on demand cloud world. Moving to cloud means shifting spending from a capital expenditure to operational expenses model, enabling organizations to pay only for what they use and only when they use it. We defined private, hybrid, and multi-cloud and described the different business drivers that lead an organization to choose these kinds of approaches. And finally, you learned the importance of a fast, reliable and low latency global network as a foundation to transformation and exceptional user experience.

### Quiz - [Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/quizzes/519947)

#### Quiz 1.

> [!important]
> **Which network performance metric describes the amount of data a network can transfer in a given amount of time?**
>
> - [ ] Fiber optics
> - [ ] Domain Name System (DNS)
> - [ ] Bandwidth
> - [ ] Latency

#### Quiz 2.

> [!important]
> **A financial services organization has bank branches in a number of countries, and has built an application that needs to run in different configurations based on the local regulations of each country. How can cloud infrastructure help achieve this goal?**
>
> - [ ] Reliability of the infrastructure availability.
> - [ ] Flexibility of infrastructure configuration.
> - [ ] Scalability of infrastructure to needs.
> - [ ] Total cost of ownership of the infrastructure.

#### Quiz 3.

> [!important]
> **An organization wants to ensure they have redundancy of their resources so their application remains available in the event of a disaster. How can they ensure this happens?**
>
> - [ ] Using the edge network to cache the whole application image in a backup.
> - [ ] By putting resources in different zones.
> - [ ] By putting resources in the Domain Name System (DNS).
> - [ ] By assigning a different IP address to each resource.

#### Quiz 4.

> [!important]
> **An organization has shifted from a CapEx to OpEx based spending model. Which of these statements is true?**
>
> - [ ] They will only pay for what they forecast.
> - [ ] Budgeting will only happen on an annual basis.
> - [ ] Hardware procurement is done by a centralized team.
> - [ ] They will only pay for what they use.

#### Quiz 5.

> [!important]
> **An organization wants to innovate using the latest technologies, but also has compliance needs that specify data must be stored in specific locations. Which cloud approach would best suit their needs?**
>
> - [ ] Hybrid Cloud
> - [ ] Public Cloud
> - [ ] On-premises infrastructure
> - [ ] Multicloud

## Cloud Computing Models and Shared Responsibility

When moving to the cloud, you must decide the type of cloud computing service model most relevant for your needs. In this section of the course, you'll explore three of those options: IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS. You'll also learn about the cloud shared responsibility model, and identify which responsibilities belong to the cloud provider and the customer.

### Video - [Introduction to cloud computing models and shared responsibility](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519948)

- [YouTube: Introduction to cloud computing models and shared responsibility](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuKOFbKnnBY)

When moving to the cloud, there are decisions to make about how to manage and operate different cloud services. One of those decisions is around the type of cloud computing service model to use. Organizations typically choose service model types based on their specific business requirements. In this section of the course, you'll explore three main cloud computing service models: IaaS, or Infrastructure as a Service PaaS, or Platform as a Service and SaaS, or Software as a Service Because the levels of responsibility between an organization and their cloud service provider vary depending on which model is used, you'll also examine the shared responsibility model between Google Cloud and our customers. By the end of this section, you'll be able to: Define IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS. Compare and contrast the benefits and tradeoffs of IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS. Determine which computing model applies to various business scenarios and use cases. Describe the cloud shared responsibility model. And identify which responsibilities are the cloud provider's or the customer's for on-premises and cloud computing models.

### Video - [Cloud computing service models](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519949)

- [YouTube: Cloud computing service models](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jDw0jsQpjkM)

The world of cloud computing has a diverse set of computing service models to choose from, depending on customer requirements. You might have heard of terms like IaaS, PaaS and SaaS. These terms represent the different cloud computing models provided "as a service" by cloud providers. "As a service" refers to the way IT resources are consumed in these models, and is a key difference between cloud computing and traditional IT. In traditional IT, an organization consumes resources,such as hardware, software, and development tools, by purchasing, installing, managing, and maintaining them in its own on-premises or self-managed data center. Organizations are responsible for all of their IT infrastructure when it's completely on-premises. In cloud computing, the cloud service provider owns, manages, and maintains the resources. The customer consumes those resources, which are provided on a subscription or pay-as-you-go basis. All you need is an internet connection. Cloud computing allows for a third party to be responsible for some part of the infrastructure. This means that organizations then have more time to focus on their core business. Coming up, we're going to explore three different cloud computing service models: Infrastructure as a service, or IaaS, which offers infrastructure resources such as compute and storage. Platform as a service, or PaaS, which offers a develop-and-deploy environment to build cloud apps. And software as a service, or SaaS, which delivers complete applications as services. Each model offers distinct features and functionalities, and knowing the differences between them helps organizations choose one to best fit their business' needs. It's important to remember that most organizations that use cloud often use a combination of cloud computing models to solve for different needs. You can visualize these cloud computing models in layers. As you move up the layers from one model to another, each model requires less knowledge and management of the underlying infrastructure. This concept is called abstraction. In cloud architecture, as the level of abstraction increases, less is known about the underlying implementation. The goal of "abstracting away" infrastructure is to reduce complexity by removing unnecessary information and simplifying operations. Think about abstraction in the way that you operate a car. When you turn on the ignition, press the brake, put the car into gear, and accelerate, you're not thinking about how the engine is physically operating under the hood, right? That complexity is abstracted away from you, so you can focus on driving safely to your destination. Abstraction is one of the core features of cloud computing. When choosing between cloud computing service models, organizations must decide the level of control and management they'll require, or how much they want to hide technical details and focus on business needs. Let's use a transportation analogy to see how on-premises, IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS compare with each other. On-premises IT infrastructure is like owning a car. When you buy a car, you're responsible for its usage and maintenance. Upgrading means buying a new car, which takes time and can be costly. IaaS is like leasing a car. When you lease a car, you choose a car and drive it wherever you want, but the car isn't yours. Upgrading is easier though, as you can just lease a new car. PaaS is like taking a taxi. You provide specific directions, like the code, but the driver does the actual driving. And SaaS is like going by bus. You still get access to transport, but it's less customizable. Buses have designated routes, and you share the space with other passengers.

### Video - [IaaS (Infrastructure as a service)](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519950)

- [YouTube: IaaS (Infrastructure as a service)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MFg4xoNSVOg)

Now let's look at each of these computing models in more detail. We'll start with infrastructure as a service, or IaaS. IaaS is a computing model that offers the on-demand availability of almost infinitely scalable infrastructure resources, such as compute, networking, storage, and databases as services over the internet. IaaS allows organizations to lease the resources they need instead of having to buy hardware outright, and they only pay for what they use. It provides the same technologies and capabilities as a traditional data center without having to physically maintain or manage all of it. One of the main reasons businesses choose IaaS is to reduce their capital expenditures and transform them into operational expenses. IaaS is appealing because acquiring computing resources to run applications or store data the traditional way requires time and capital. Organizations must purchase equipment through procurement processes that can take months. They must also invest in physical spaces, which are typically specialized rooms with power and cooling. And after deploying the systems, they need IT professionals to manage them. This traditional way is challenging to scale when demand spikes or business grows. Organizations risk running out of capacity, or overbuilding and ending up with underutilized infrastructure. In contrast, IaaS resources are offered as individual services, so organizations can choose what they need. The cloud provider manages the infrastructure, and businesses can concentrate on installing, configuring, and managing software and keeping their data secure. Compute Engine and Cloud Storage are examples of Google Cloud IaaS products. You can create and run virtual machines with Compute Engine, and you can store any type of data with Cloud Storage. So, what are the benefits of IaaS? It's economical. Because IaaS resources are used on demand and you only pay for what you use, IaaS costs are fairly predictable and easy to budget for. It's efficient. IaaS resources are regularly available when you need them. As a result, there are fewer delays when infrastructure is expanded resources aren't wasted by overbuilding capacity. This efficiency leads to faster development lifecycles and ultimately a faster time to market. It boosts productivity. Because the cloud provider is responsible for setting up and maintaining the physical infrastructure, IT departments save time and money. They can then redirect resources to more strategic activities. It's reliable. IaaS has no single point of failure. Even if one component of the hardware resources fails, the service usually remains available. And it's scalable. One of the biggest advantages of IaaS in cloud computing is the capability to scale the resources up and down rapidly rapidly according to business needs. So, what scenarios would IaaS be good for? The flexibility and scalability of IaaS is useful for organizations that: Have unpredictable workload volumes or need to move quickly in response to business fluctuations. Require more infrastructure scalability and agility than traditional data centers can provide. Have high business growth that outpaces infrastructure capabilities. Experience unpredictable spikes in demand for infrastructure services. And see low utilization of existing infrastructure resources.

### Video - [PaaS (Platform as a service)](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519951)

- [YouTube: PaaS (Platform as a service)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D6a7b1fh-Cw)

Platform as a Service, or PaaS, is a computing model that offers a cloud-based platform for developing, running, and managing applications.  PaaS provides a framework for developers that they can build upon and use to create customized applications. PaaS is appealing because it provides a platform for developers to develop, run, and manage their own apps without having to build and maintain the associated infrastructure. They can also use built-in software components to build their applications, which reduces the amount of code they have to write. Cloud Run and BigQuery are examples of Google Cloud PaaS products. Cloud Run is a fully managed, serverless platform for developing and hosting applications at scale, which takes care of provisioning servers and scaling app instances based on demand. BigQuery is a fully managed enterprise data warehouse that manages and analyzes data, and can be queried to answer big data questions with zero infrastructure management. So, what are the benefits of PaaS? It reduces development time. Developers can go straight to coding instead of spending time setting up and maintaining a development environment, which leads to faster time to market. which leads to faster time to market. It's scalable. With PaaS, organizations can purchase additional capacity for building, testing, staging, and running applications whenever they need it. It also allows for applications to be designed to take advantage of the inherent scalability of cloud infrastructure. It reduces management. By abstracting the management of underlying resources even further than IaaS, PaaS offloads infrastructure management, patches, updates, and other administrative tasks to the cloud service provider. This provides a cost-effective way to focus on new functionality. And it's flexible. With support for different programming languages and easy collaboration for distributed teams, PaaS provides developers with the flexibility to deliver various projects—from prototypes to enterprise solutions—on the same platform. So, what scenarios would PaaS be good for? PaaS is suitable for organizations that: Want to create unique and custom applications without investing a lot in owning and managing infrastructure. Want to rapidly test and deploy applications. Have many legacy applications and want to reduce the cost of operations. Have a new app project that they want to deploy quickly by growing and updating the app as fast as possible. Want to only pay for resources while they're being used. And want to offload time-consuming tasks such as setting up and maintaining application servers and development and testing environments.

### Video - [SaaS (Software as a service)](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519952)

- [YouTube: SaaS (Software as a service)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bx6Nowg_1yA)

Software as a service, or SaaS, is a computing model that offers an entire application, managed by a cloud provider, through a web browser. The cloud provider hosts the application software in the cloud and delivers it through a browser. With this model, you don't need to download or install any of it. SaaS is appealing because it abstracts technology completely from the consumer; SaaS is appealing because it abstracts technology completely from the consumer; the end user doesn't need to care about the underlying infrastructure, which is the cloud provider's responsibility. Organizations simply pay a subscription fee for access to a ready-to-use software product. Google Workspace, which includes tools such as Gmail, Google Drive, Google Docs, and Google Meet, is a Google Cloud SaaS product. So, what are the benefits of SaaS? It's low maintenance. SaaS eliminates the need to have IT staff download and install applications on each individual computer. With SaaS, vendors manage all potential technical issues, such as data, servers, storage, and updates in the cloud. This helps to streamline maintenance and support for an organization. It's cost-effective. SaaS is based on a subscription model with a fixed, inclusive, monthly or annual account fee. Predictable costs and per-user budgeting allows for clear financial governance. It's flexible. Everything is available over the internet when a user signs in to their personalized account online. They can access the software from anywhere, any device, anytime. And what scenarios would SaaS be good for? Well, SaaS is suitable for organizations that: Well, SaaS is suitable for organizations that: Want to use standard software solutions that require minimal customization. Don't want to invest time or internal expertise in maintaining applications or infrastructure. Need more time for IT teams to focus on strategic projects. And need to access apps from various devices and locations.

### Video - [Choosing a cloud computing model](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519953)

- [YouTube: Choosing a cloud computing model](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ddUtnMb3R5s)

So, how does an organization decide which cloud computing model is the best option for them? The answer depends on their business needs, required functionality, and available expertise. If they are looking for a highly flexible, scalable service— while maintaining control of their infrastructure— then IaaS is the right choice. This model offers the most control and customization, but also requires the most management responsibilities and technical expertise. If they need a platform designed for building software products, then PaaS would help their business immediately. This provides a cost-effective way to build applications, but still requires some technical expertise and less management. If they want features that are ready to use, without the hassle of installations, then SaaS might be the best option. This represents the least management responsibilities and technical expertise, but also offers the least control and customization. These computing models are not mutually exclusive, though. Depending on the use case, most organizations will use combinations of all three to solve for different business needs. They'll need to compare their options based on variables such as management level, control, responsibility, flexibility, and expertise needed. For example, imagine a large organization needs to implement a new inventory management system. If they had the in-house expertise to develop it and the willingness to manage the infrastructure, they could build this with IaaS resources. The organization's IT team would have complete control over server configurations, but also bear the burden of managing and maintaining them. They could choose a PaaS solution and build a custom CRM application while offloading management of infrastructure to the cloud service provider; retaining complete control over application features, but reducing the management load. Finally they could choose to buy a ready-made SaaS solution; having no daily management of infrastructure, , but also giving up all control over features and functionality in the software. Each of these options is a viable solution, so organizations must compare the benefits and tradeoffs for each use case. These cloud computing service models give organizations choices, flexibility, and options that on-premises hosting simply can't provide.

### Video - [The shared responsibility model](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519954)

- [YouTube: The shared responsibility model](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9vgNLVfS7M)

One area of responsibility where each of the cloud computing models differ is security. When an organization manages its data in its own data centers, that organization is responsible for all aspects of its security. However, as infrastructure is moved to the cloud, some aspects of the responsibility shift to the cloud provider. This concept is called the shared responsibility model. Security in the cloud is a shared responsibility between the cloud provider and the customer. Although direct responsibilities change based on the cloud computing service model, organizations are always in control of securing their data, and the cloud provider is always responsible for securing the infrastructure. At Google Cloud, we defend organizations' data against threats and fraudulent activity with the same infrastructure and security services we use for our own operations. However, security of the cloud and security in the cloud are two different things. Simply put, the cloud provider is responsible for the security of the cloud, while the customer is responsible for security in the cloud. It's important for organizations to understand how the specific customer responsibilities vary according to the type of cloud computing model used. This is especially important because, according to a Gartner report, 99% of all cloud security failures will result from user error through the year 2025. Organizations must understand their roles and responsibilities in cloud security to guarantee it.

### Video - [How the shared responsibility model works](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519955)

- [YouTube: How the shared responsibility model works](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9OEG-XSQjKM)

If you look at the various cloud computing models together, you can see where the cloud provider's responsibility ends and where the customer's responsibility begins. A general guideline for shared responsibility is that "if you configure or store it, you're responsible for securing it." This generally means that a cloud provider is responsible for securing the parts of the cloud that it directly controls, such as hardware, networks, and physical security. At the same time, the customer is responsible for securing anything that they create within the cloud, such as the configurations, access policies, and user data. No matter which cloud provider you use, there is shared responsibility. Let's examine the ratios of responsibility between Google Cloud as a service provider and our customers. The blue squares represent the parts of the infrastructure security that the customer is responsible for, while the yellow squares represent the elements that Google Cloud is responsible for. Let's begin with on-premises. When an organization runs its own on-premises data centers, security for the infrastructure is solely the responsibility of the organization's internal teams. They are responsible for securing servers and the data stored on them. Next is infrastructure as a service. When an organization transitions to an IaaS computing model, it assigns some IT security responsibilities to Google Cloud. This includes being responsible for the physical resources and sharing responsibility with the customer for the security of the infrastructure and network. The rest, such as the security of the operating system, software stack required to run their applications, and their data, is the responsibility of the customer. This allows customers the most freedom and control, but also places most of the responsibility in their hands. When an organization uses the platform as a service model, more of the responsibility is passed over to Google Cloud. This includes full responsibility for the physical infrastructure, the access and authentication, network security, and guest operating systems. The customer is still responsible for the security of any content, such as code or data, produced on the platform. Lastly, with the software as a service model, Google Cloud is responsible for almost every aspect of security—from the underlying infrastructure to the actual application. Customers still have some security responsibilities, such as application usage, access policies like authentication settings to prevent phishing attacks, and the user content. One important aspect of the shared responsibility model is that customers are always responsible for the security of their data, whether they have on-premises data centers or only pay a monthly subscription for a single user license. The customer controls who or what has access to their data. Google Cloud is committed to keeping customers' data secure, but security is a shared responsibility, and requires collaboration.

### Video - [Summary](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519956)

- [YouTube: Summary](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=APA2boXIxhw)

This brings us to the end of the third section of the Digital Transformation with Google Cloud course. Let's do a quick review of cloud computing models and shared responsibility. You learned about the three main cloud computing service models: IaaS, or infrastructure as a service, PaaS, or platform as a service, and SaaS, or software as a service. Each model brings a different level of service and set of products to suit an organization's needs. You also learned about how the main benefits and trade-offs of each cloud computing model can help organizations choose the one that best fits their business. Organizations will be better equipped to make the right resourcing and budget decisions knowing exactly what is involved in each computing model. Finally, you learned about the shared responsibility between the cloud provider and its customers. While the cloud provider will keep the cloud infrastructure safe and secure, it's the responsibility of the customer to keep its data secure.

### Quiz - [Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/quizzes/519957)

#### Quiz 1.

> [!important]
> **An organization wants to move to cloud-based collaboration software, but due to limited IT staff one of their main drivers is having low maintenance needs. Which cloud computing model would best suit their requirements?**
>
> - [ ] IT as a service (ITaaS)
> - [ ] Software as a Service (SaaS)
> - [ ] Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)
> - [ ] Platform as a Service (PaaS)

#### Quiz 2.

> [!important]
> **In the cloud computing shared responsibility model, what types of content are customers always responsible for, regardless of the computing model chosen?**
>
> - [ ] The customer is responsible for all infrastructure decisions, server configurations and database monitoring.
> - [ ] The customer is responsible for security of the operating system, software stack required to run their applications and any hardware, networks, and physical security.
> - [ ] The customer is not responsible for any of the data in the cloud, as data management is the responsibility of the cloud provider who is hosting the data.
> - [ ] The customer is responsible for securing anything that they create within the cloud, such as the configurations, access policies, and user data.

#### Quiz 3.

> [!important]
> **Which cloud computing service model offers a develop-and-deploy environment to build cloud applications?**
>
> - [ ] Software as a Service (SaaS)
> - [ ] Platform as a Service (PaaS)
> - [ ] Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)
> - [ ] Function as a Service (FaaS)

#### Quiz 4.

> [!important]
> **Which option best describes a benefit of Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)?**
>
> - [ ] It's cost-effective, as all infrastructure costs are handled under a single monthly or annual subscription fee.
> - [ ] It has low management overhead, as all administration and management tasks for data, servers, storage, and updates are handled by the cloud vendor.
> - [ ] It's efficient, as IaaS resources are available when needed and resources aren't wasted by overbuilding capacity.
> - [ ] It reduces development time, as developers can go straight to coding instead of spending time setting up and maintaining a development environment.

## Course Summary

The course closes with a summary of the key points covered in each section and next steps to continue learning.

### Video - [Course summary](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/266/video/519958)

- [YouTube: Course summary](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qI_AKXC-Z9Q)

This concludes the "Digital Transformation with Google Cloud" course where you learned about the foundations of cloud technology and saw how this technology is changing business in a digital era. In the first section of the course, Why Cloud Technology is Transforming Business, you learned: key terms related to the cloud and digital transformation, the benefits of cloud technology with regard to an organization's digital transformation, the differences between on-premises infrastructure, public cloud, private cloud, hybrid cloud, and multicloud, and the drivers and challenges that lead organizations to undergo a digital transformation. In the second section of the course, Fundamental cloud concepts, you learned: the benefits of moving to cloud infrastructure through customer business use cases, the difference between a solution and a product in Google Cloud, how moving to the cloud shifts an organization's spending from capital expenditure to operational expenditure, and how that affects their total cost of ownership, when private, hybrid, or multicloud infrastructures best apply to different business use cases, basic network infrastructure terminology, and how Google Cloud supports digital transformation with global infrastructure and data centers connected by a fast, reliable network. In the third section of the course, Cloud Computing Models and Shared Responsibility, you learned: the definitions, benefits, and tradeoffs of IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS, which computing model applies to various business scenarios and use cases, what the cloud shared responsibility model is, and which responsibilities are the cloud provider's or the customer's for on-premises and cloud computing models Now you've had a comprehensive introduction to digital transformation, move on to the next course in the series, Exploring Data Transformation with Google Cloud, where you'll learn about: the value of data, the cloud data transformation journey, Google Cloud data management solutions, and Google Cloud smart analytics and business intelligence solutions.

## Your Next Steps

### Badge - [Course Badge](https://www.cloudskillsboost.googleNone)
