---
id: 517
name: 'Google Cloud AI and ML Solutions for the Public Sector'
type: Course
url: https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517
date_published: 2024-04-25
topics:
  - Machine Learning
  - Machine Translation
  - Artificial Intelligence
---

# [Google Cloud AI and ML Solutions for the Public Sector](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517)

**Description:**

Building a Conversational Interface with Dialogflow CX

Building conversational interfaces will enable you to engage your constituents in delightful new ways. This section will provide an overview of Dialogflow CX, which provides a range of new capabilities, languages, and functions.

Scaling Equity and Access with Enterprise Translation Hub

Accurate, timely and cost effective document translation has long been a challenge to providing equitable and accessible service to all constituents. In this section, explore Google's Enterprise Translation solutions which provide scalable document translation leveraging best in class Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, while retaining the critical human in the loop for final post editing review.

**Objectives:**

* Summarize the features and functionalities of Dialogflow CX.
* Build a Virtual Agent using Dialogflow CX.
* Identify Google Cloud's Translation solutions.
* Translate documents using Enterprise Translation Hub

## Introduction to Dialogflow CX

This module gives an introduction to Dialogflow CX and Dialogflow CX terms and concepts.

### Video - [Module introduction](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/video/469818)

* [YouTube: Module introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a6xxX8uk4jY)

My name is Anthony Okwechime and I am a member of the Global Public Sector Team. My focus over the last couple of years has been on A.I. driven human interactions. So any solutions or technologies that help facilitate a conversation between machines and humans is an area that I like to focus on. Today, I will be going over a session where I'm right away. I have the long session, meaning that what we're doing today actually is we're going to be building a conversational interface with dialog flow. The goal today is to walk you through the intent process. So I know that it's not the work on the phone. I've had a conversation about. You've heard the conversation about dialog flow and we will build in virtual agents and bots and all of those. This session today I will have a few slides just to provide a foundational for my foundational knowledge about terminology. But the crux of this session is going to be building. So I'm going to dive in, so I'll share with you a particular use case. And we're just going to walk through building out the virtual agents. The goal is that at the end of this session I will have a functional virtual agents and everyone on this call will know how to build this. I'd like everyone to be able to just head head off after this and go, That's the building. That's the goal for today. So I provide some background before I jump into the agenda. A couple months ago, I was traveling in the midst of the pandemic and I got to the airport. There was a huge crowds and it was just a horrible experience. I make my way to my gates and then I see that my flight has been canceled or postponed or something of the sorts. And I was traveling for a family event and I had to be in the Baxter location and extra time. And so at that point in time, there's this huge queue at the airport. I wasn't looking forward to calling the airline because you know what it's like to call just about any business today. You know, so you pick up the phone, you call and essentially you'll be placed on hold. But I was like, you know what? I'll try because there's no other option. I need to figure out what the options are. So I pick up the phone and make a call, and immediately I hear a voice saying, Welcome, This is the airline X-Y-Z, and how can I help you? And I'm like, Oh my gosh, I just want to speak to a person I know. My job is building conversational interfaces to work with virtual agents. But at that point in time, I wasn't in the mood to talk, to congratulate it of any sort. But, you know, the virtual agent was sort of insistent, was like, I know you want to speak to a person, but if you tell me what you know, why you're calling, I perhaps I can help. And I was like, Hey, my flight's been canceled and all of that stuff. And it's and it says, okay, please provide me your your flight, your confirmation on my do that. And it's that to have this conversation going back and forth. You know, it's like I see your flight has been canceled. Here are the options. Would you like to select one of these? And I'm like, hey, I'm going to be running late. I have eight events to attend. Let me keep going back and forth. Believe it or not, this is what a virtual agent I'm like, Oh, this is interesting. Did I build this? But the point is the virtually to walk me through the process of essentially rescheduling me for the next flight. Actually, at the end of it, apologize for the experience and said, hey, here's a voucher we're going to provide you. And in the end, I got off the phone and my issue I called in with was resolved. And that got me thinking about just the power of having a engage with citizens or with constituents for certain use cases. And that's what we're going to try to do here today. I'm going to walk through the process so that I can show you how we can mirror that experience for some use cases. So I'll start off with a quick overview of dialog and then I'll jump into building right away. Now, after we've built out the virtual agent, I'm going to start from scratch several times. You'll see a is you'll have a session where folks have pre-built stuff. I haven't pre-built anything. Yes, I've worked through the process, but I'm going to be building every single component. You're going to see how every single component is built in dialog flow, and that's what we can get it to the end. And working after that, I'll enable this omni channel support. So I'll build a virtual agent that is able to support multiple different channels. I'll enable that virtual agent for the voice channel. So this is like a call center and I'll enable it as well for chats if you wanted to put it on your website. So you'll see how to do that. And then I'll walk you through the use case. I'll see here, here's exactly what's happened so everyone is clear and then we'll end with some next steps and that's what we're going to do. So let's get started.

### Video - [Introduction to Dialogflow CX](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/video/469819)

* [YouTube: Introduction to Dialogflow CX](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E3oLWjFd-ck)

Now when you hear Dialogflow, I mean when you think of Dialogflow. Here's what I want to think about. I want you to think about a platform for building conversation and interfaces, and I've covered Dialogflow in past sessions, so I'm not going to dive into the details of Dialogflow ES and there’s a CX. CX is the focus for today. It's the new bright, shiny object today. Now, so when you think of Dialogflow virtual agents, it's a essentially an agent. That's it's a it's a solution. I see it as synonymous with a live agents. When you call in to a to a call center, it will be chatting with a language and the virtual agent Is essentially an AI version of that. Now, there's a few things that are new with the Dialogflow, we could already match contents. So in other words, when a user calls in and says, Hey, I want I want to order pizza all here, what is the status of my empty card? Or I want to make an appointment or something of the sort? The virtual agent is able to determine what the intent is and we can match that intent and figure out how to proceed. But we see it. We've provided the opportunity to have your virtual agent in specific location. So regionalization is a big part of that. And I'll show you that so you can select one or a region, I should say it, that that works for you. There's also the fact that we can now have multiple dialog through agents in a single project with the older version of Dialogflow. If you had to have one agent for project, but now we can have multiple. So if you were going to set up a lobby or in your environment or you wanted to go test this out, you can simply provision one project that you can build a tone, you can have multiple people building in the same project. We've also introduced some advanced natural language understanding new advanced and new a natural language in a static engine that's based on birds. You know, you'll see improvements in the quality of just understanding conversation with Dialogflow CX. And so that's what I wanted to focus on. Now we're going to dive very quickly into some foundational concepts. This is one parts. Well, urge everyone to try to just pay attention because I'm going to I'm going to describe these concepts. And then as we start to build, you'll see the application of each of these concepts. So I'm going to go over what an intent is. I'll talk about the visual flow builder. I'm going to talk about flows and pages form the state handlers and fulfillments and all of these things. Hopefully at the end of this, every single term on this page will be clear to you because you'll have an explanation and you'll see us in action as we use the terminology.

### Video - [Intents](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/video/469820)

* [YouTube: Intents](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vNXYYUt010)

Let's start off with intense, intense wear, also available with dialog fluids and an intense essentially categorizes what an end users intention is. So think about that. You call in and say, Hey, what is this? What is the status of my of my EBT card or you call into the air and you see when is my phone coming or your calling into a into Health and human services and you're saying, you know what, I want to register for SNAP. I want to apply for SNAP. An intent allows it virtually go to determine that based on your utterance or what you've typed. Here is your goal. Here's what you're trying to achieve. So again, you're going to have the comments at the end. I'm going to I'm going to have the answers to the codes all the way through this session. So if you listen, you'll be able to get you be that guy that comes up talks or will be that person, I should say guy go person who's on top at the end of the session. So first of all, intense in Dialogflow CX are no longer a building block. What we've done is that, yes, they were a building block. Do we have a sense of ES, with CX, we sort of slimmed them down. And if you look here for us, an intent is simply made up of a bunch of training phrases. That's what I'm intent is for us now. So intense for that applause. See, it's contained in training phrases and this means that they are reusable. It means that when I create an intent, I give the agent a few examples of what a user might say and then were able to extrapolate. So in this example, we might say, here I want to my intention for this is what kind of tests, what kind of tests that you're coming in to them before. And one person might say automobile, another test may say for a car to drive an SUV, essentially provide these examples to the agents and then the user can see just about anything. As long as there's a relation to the training phrase is doubtful, figure out what it is. In addition, intense can be used to determine what the next page will be, and I'll talk about pages. But the point is, if I said, Hey, I want to schedule a drive test, for example, if that intent is matched, the virtual agents will then be able to say, you know what, if you're scheduling, if you want to schedule the next step is to request your first name and last thing, for example. So when you hear state handlers, this is how we transition from one line of the conversation to the next line of the conversation, or from one turn of a conversation to the next.

### Video - [Flows and pages](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/video/469821)

* [YouTube: Flows and pages](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qrkc-SVYkuI)

The visual flow builder is the new UI for Dialogflow CX. And again, it graphs each flow as a conversational state machine diagram. But the point is, you know, it's really nice. You'll see as we jump into this year, sort of looks like a flow chart of some sort is what it looks like. But the point is you get a better overview of the conversation and it's easy to maintain. And then let's move on to two really important concepts. First is a flow. And next is a page. Now, when you think about conversations between people, they can be fairly complex and they can have multiple conversation topics. So, for example, if I wanted to apply for a if I was going to apply for some sort of benefits and I was calling in, kind of the conversation might be, okay, I call you, I want to apply for Snapple Tonic or something of the sorts. The first part of the conversation might be let's check if you're eligible. And that's what you see here. And to check if you're eligible, that might need to collect your first name, last name, last fall, your social something. And if I see you eligible right away, I can pass you on to the confirm application and you can go ahead and apply for. I might need to collect the information I just mentioned. First name, last name, and all of these things. Right. So the point is, every law is made up of multiple different pages. A flow is made up of multiple different pages, multiple different topics, essentially. And that's typical of flow as that. So we use flows to define topics. And the associated conversation path is what I'm seeing here. So again, remember that a flow is made up of multiple different pages and each of those pages can handle a separate topic. So if you look at the example here, I have four different flows here. This is all to the DMV. What does one flow that handles a payment, a renewal of payments, another flow handle, scheduling a drive test, a driving test. Another flow handles finding the DMV and a little flow handles Just the end of session. Finding the DMV will have multiple pages in this. Finding the DMV. I might say to you, What is your zip code? What will you know, what do you want to go to? And things like that. And then there's pages. So again, a flow is made up of multiple pages. The way that a pages think of the page as being the construct that allows us collect information or that is specific to a particular conversation. Right. So you see this example here. This might be an order pizza flow, this entire things and order pizza flow, but is a page for adding a drink on that page. You might say, do you want soda or do you want water? For example? There's a page for adding the pizza. And on that page you might say, you know, do you want, you know, what kind of pizza do you want? And then there's a page for there's a feed for Do you want a thick cross that you want a thin cross? That's all this. Add a pizza while on this edit order or this edit of the page, we can add a drink, we can remove items. So again, remember that this is one flow with multiple pages. Now the components of a page are fulfillments and I'll talk about these later. We'll think about fulfillment as the virtual agents dialog. So what is the agent saying back to me? That's what a fulfillment is. We can also have forms. We call these form parameters and I'll talk a bit about these and we can have state handlers I'm going to dive into each of these.

### Video - [Forms and state handlers](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/video/469822)

* [YouTube: Forms and state handlers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kuOopydS9lA)

Now, what is the form for each page? We can define a form and what a form is. It's a list of all the parameters that I want to collect in one conversation. Right? So if you look here, for example, say I wanted to collect user information and might want to collect the user's full name. I want to collect their Social Security number and I want to collect the telephone number. I can simply build the form and define these three parameters that they are collecting for me. What will happen is, as the user speaking dialog flow prompts the user, Hey, you know, tell me your full name. When the user speaks, Dataflow will identify that a full name has been spoken. So I don't need to create that intense. I just need to ask for the information. The user can see, you know what my full name is? John Doe. Essentially, Dallas law will determine that John Doe is a full name. Will you move on to the Social Security, for example? Dallas, you can say tell me your Social Security. The user will be saying, my Social Security number is one, two, three, four, five, six. Dialogflow will again determine that the portion where the user was speaking a sequence of numbers is the Social Security number. You'll see the powerful form feeling as we build out the solution. We then move on to state handlers and think of state handlers as the concept or the construct that allow us move from one page to the other. So, for example, if I'm on a page where I collected a user's information and I want to move to the next page where I confirmed that information, so say the user says, My name is Tony, my Social Security number is one, two, three, my phone number is this You typically want to read that back to or see that backside user. Okay, Tony, I heard one, two, three and blah, blah, blah. The way that I determine when I'm ready to move to the next page is by engaging a state handler. And there's multiple kinds of state handlers. First of all, we have roots, excuse me, and there's two different kinds of routes. The intent routes, and there's conditional routes. And intent routes essentially happens when we say if a user matches a particular intent to say a user says, I want to schedule a drive test, then you can move to the next feed. So every time that intent happens, I'm saying to data to move to the next thing and ask the next set of next set of questions. A conditional route happens when a particular condition is true. So, for example, if I'm collecting information and I want to have the user give me three different responses, in other words, what is your first name? What is your last name? What is your Social Security? I can have a condition that says as long as the user provides this three parameters, then move to the next page. And that's what a conditional route is essentially saying. I'm going to come up with a conditional statement that tells downloads, Look, you can move to the next page. And then we also have you been as and these are essentially triggered by events you can define an event or second platform that integrates with perhaps Facebook or Twitter or whatever the case may be, might have there particular events that trigger an action in Dallas and help them move to the next page.

### Video - [Fulfillments and rich response messages](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/video/469823)

* [YouTube: Fulfillments and rich response messages](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E-Zv6Lmrx94)

Okay. I talked about fulfillment earlier. Well, think of fulfillment as the agent's response. Right. So if you look here, we defined what the agent is going to respond to. When you hear fulfillment, think about fulfillment as what is my virtual agent going to respond when a user says something to them? We can have a static response message which is defined in the console, or we can have a webhook call for dynamic responses. So perhaps you have some code with some logic on the backend that provides what the virtual agent's response should be. Or we can have parameter presets. You're going to see all of these again. So I will dwell. And then finally, before we start to build this rich response messages, so think of rich response messages as platform specific messages to provide a richer experience. So, for example, I'm showing here the dialog for Messenger, which you're going to take a look at, rather than just if you're if you're in a web browser and you check a little website rather than just having text all the time, we can have buttons, we can have options like you can see here, yes or no, and all of these things, or if we're on the phone and we're calling in, I can reach the conversation. See, I wanted to to to repeat your Social Security number. I can use symbol to slow down the virtual agent speech, the rate at which is speaking. So I make sure that you hear it correctly. So again, think of rich response messages as just options that are platform specific in reaching that experience.

### Quiz - [Quiz: Dialogflow CX Overview](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/quizzes/469824)

#### Quiz 1.

> [!important]
> **Which Dialogflow CX feature is used to change response formats from text to buttons or Yes/No answers?**
>
> * [ ] State Handlers.
> * [ ] Flows.
> * [ ] Rich Response Messages.
> * [ ] Fulfillments.

#### Quiz 2.

> [!important]
> **Flows are used to:**
>
> * [ ] Provide agent responses.
> * [ ] Define conversational topics and the associated conversational paths.
> * [ ] Identify conversations.
> * [ ] Define a list of parameters.

#### Quiz 3.

> [!important]
> **You are building a virtual agent, and that virtual agent needs to determine what a customer is trying to achieve. What enables the virtual agent to determine customer goals?**
>
> * [ ] An Intent.
> * [ ] The Visual Flow Builder
> * [ ] A state handler.
> * [ ] A form.

#### Quiz 4.

> [!important]
> **In Dialogflow CX, a list of all parameters you'd like to collect is referred to as a:**
>
> * [ ] Form.
> * [ ] State Handler.
> * [ ] Page.
> * [ ] Fulfillment.

#### Quiz 5.

> [!important]
> **A virtual agent is:**
>
> * [ ] A virtual security system.
> * [ ] A type of virtual machine.
> * [ ] An agent to train machine learning models.
> * [ ] An AI version of a live call center or chat agent.

## Building a Virtual Agent using Dialogflow CX

This module consists of demos, describing how to build a virtual agent in Dialogflow CX, and showing how to enable omni-channel support.

### Video - [Module overview](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/video/469825)

* [YouTube: Module overview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Ro7QYqkRGQ)

Okay. So we're going to get to building if you have any questions about anything I've talked about, to get to them on the chat and respond to them eventually. Let's see how this works. So I'm going to be building eventually density. But I wanted to share with you what the structure will be. The use case that I've selected to do to build today is appointment scheduling at a do that again, even though it's a DMV, think about appointments, get appointment scheduling anywhere and it's a simple agents have an image of the agent here. So we're going to start off at the beginning. You know, the virtual agent will say welcome to the DMV or something. We'll put in the message there and the user will then say, Hey, I want to schedule an appointment to drive test appointments. The virtual agent will say, okay, in order to do this, I need to prove I need to I need to collect information about you. Would you like to go ahead? The user can see, No, I don't want to go ahead. And if the user says that's let me turn my it's on my point. So on. So if the user says no, I don't want to go ahead. The virtual agent can ask, okay, is there anything else I can help you with? The user says no and they need. But if the user says yes, I would like to go ahead. The virtual agent will then collect specifically information. Perhaps the first name, the last name, something of the sort, and then the virtually general confirms that information will say, okay, Hello, Tony. I see that your your the dates you want to schedule for is X and the location you want is why am I correct if the users if the user responds, yes, this is correct. The vetted agent will then say, Great, I have you scheduled, can I help you with anything else? And then the conversation will end. But if the user says no, you don't have the correct the correct information, the virtual agent will apologize and be like, Hey, I'm sorry, let's let's collect that information again and then it will go back and request the information again. So this is what we're going to build out. It's a fairly simple flow, but it's applicable across a lot of use cases. Doing a scheduling for appointments in person or scheduling meets or whatever the case may be. And that's why I picked this. And I think the DMV as well.

### Video - [Demo: Building a virtual agent in Dialogflow CX.](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/video/469826)

* [YouTube: Demo: Building a virtual agent in Dialogflow CX.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PuncvAPBN4E)

So let's get building. Yeah. Okay. I'm going to pull up an actual Dialogflow CX environments. And so this is Dialogflow CX where everyone is going to like I said, we're going to build from scratch. You can see a few examples of virtual agents that I built. So you start off, you say create agents. Hey, Tony. Yes. I don't know if it's going to mess up the interface. Can you make that a little bit? Could you zoom in a little bit? Great. That's okay. Great. Thank you. Is it any is it any better? Yeah, that helps. Okay. Okay. So I'm going to click on Create Agent. And again, you simply go to Dialogflow to Cloud to Google dot com. And I'm going to create agents here. Now, I have to say this. If you plan to use Google's phone, get me and I'll talk about this. If you would like to have Google assign your agent a phone number so you can call in like a call center. Then we do have this requirement that you put your agents in a global region. You can see there's multiple different regions here, and that's why I'm selecting the global region. You can come here and then select your timezone and the default is English. But again, you'll see that there's multiple different languages supported here. I'm going to call this learning series. You can call the agent whatever you want, and I'll call this live agent because we’re doing this live. Okay? So we click on Create and you essentially get a blank canvas. You see here that all we have is a start page. So let's just go over a few things. We have the default stock flow. And remember, I talked about the fact that a flow has multiple pages, but when you start off, you will simply have a start page and that's all that you have. If we look at the first few, if we look at essentially the first fulfillment in the page, you see here the default welcome intents, if I scroll down, we can see the age of fulfillment. When you say hi to the agent, it will typically respond, Hi, how are you doing? Hello, how can I help you? That's not what I want. I want these virtual agents to say to me, and I do have text here to make things faster. Essentially, I want the virtual agent to say to me, Welcome to the DMV or something of the sort. So I want the agent to say, welcome. I'm the virtual agent for the DMV. How can I help you? Okay. And so that's how we're going to start. Now, once I've done that, I'll save this. And we have a test and we have the ability to test here, local state testing to test. As you build, you can test as you go along. But right now, if I say hello, the agent should respond. Welcome and eventually do for the DMV. How can I help you? Next, I would like this agent to be able to understand when a user is asking to schedule a drive test. The way that I do that is I'm going to go and create an intent to capture that information. So you see here, I'm going to create content and I'm going to call this intent scheduled to drive test. Now, as you work and you build intents, I'll see that the naming convention can be really important. Right? You want to I mean, this is how I name maintains. I have a verb, and then I have essentially the the subject essentially. So schedule don't drive this. You don't have to do it that way, but pick a naming convention and stick to it. That's helpful. And then let's start to put some examples in here. Remember, I talked about the fact that we provide training phrases. So when a person is going to do the drive test, I would think they would say something like, I would like to schedule an in-person drive test. They might say, I want to come in for a driving test. And I'm not you know, I'm not doing a great job here. You want to make sure that the examples you provide as different as possible for the same thing. For the purposes of this, you know it will suffice. Now, you typically want to provide 10 to 15 training phrases so that we give the virtual agent the opportunity to be able to extrapolate using that. But I'm only going to do four or five to date. The point is, a user can come in and say any of these things or stuff that's similar and the agent will understand that what they're trying to do is get you to drive this so good. I've created my very first intent. Now I'll go back to the start page and I'm going to use that intent as a route. So I'm saying here, when the user says this, when a user I clicked on the add the plus side to say the routes and go to select my intent, schedule the drive test. And I'm saying that when the user says I want to schedule a drive test, what I want the agent to respond in this particular instance is something along the lines of, okay, in order to proceed, I will need to collect some additional information is what I want the agent to see in this instance. And after that, I want the agent to move on to say, you know, would you like to put would you like to go ahead? In other words, here the agent will say, I want to collect some additional information here. So now a user comes in. The user says, I want to schedule a drive test. The agent will respond. Okay, notice, see, I will need to collect some additional information. And then what happens next? I'm going to create a follow up page On this particular page. I want to confirm if the user is comfortable with providing additional information that the user you know, a user my calling, I say, Hey, I want to schedule a drive test where you say I'm going to you need to provide additional information. These are my say, Oh, whoa, I do want to provide additional information. So I'm going to create here a page and I'm going to call this page, inquire. Go ahead. Again, you can name me whatever you want. I look at this, the names of pages, but excuse me. So, again, inquire. Go ahead. So let's look at the agents. So far. At this point, I have a start. The user can say to me, I want to tell you the drive test, and then we'll go to the page where we say inquire. Go ahead on this page on the inquire. Go ahead, page. What the agent is going to ask is, would you like to go ahead. So I'll come to the fulfillments and I'll say, Hey, agents say to the user, would you like to go ahead? Okay. And now all of these essentially point to the fact that before you build a virtual agent, you want to have written out your script. This is why several times, even though this is a technical conversation, you want to work with the line of business to understand what a typical conversational flow will be like, because that's what's guiding us here. And I'll show you when we're told that at the end of this. Well, the point is you need to understand what the conversation is so you can start to build. You don't need to get 100% write down a little bit, help it. That's what you do need to understand what the conversation is. So in this instance, the agent is then going to say, Would you like to go ahead? And of course, when you ask a user, would you like to go ahead, there's two options the user could see. Yes. And the user could say no. So we're going to then use a an intense route. Remember that we've sort of seen this in the past, but now I'm going to use an intense route to create a branch with a branch out in two directions. Yes, there is. And the new direction. Let's start off with the new direction rights. I don't have an intent that says it tells me about no. Yes, I can come here and I can see new intents and I'm going to call this the intent. Confirm. No, confirm, no. Again, I'm going to provide a few training phrases. So let's say nope. What made a user say when they when they don't want to do something? No, I don't know why. Nothing. Something like nothing in second, perhaps they say nothing. Thank you. You spell, perhaps they don't. The point is, you just want to give a few examples of what you think a user might see. Excuse me when they say no. So now I've created this confirmed, but no intent here and I'm going to save it. So now for the confirm that no intent when I create, that's what I want to happen is if the user says, no, I don't want to go ahead. Okay, we'll have the agency. Okay, then what I want to happen next is if the user says, no, I don't want to go ahead. I want to inquire from the user, you know, can I help you with anything else? So while the user says, okay, I'm then going to transition to a page where I ask the user, you know, what else can I help you with? And I'm going to call this page. Anything else? Okay. So I just walk through the process and build in the middle part of the flow. Right now the user says, No, I don't want to go ahead. The agent will say, okay, and then it will transition to a new page called Anything Else. Now let's look at what we've built. We've built out, you know, a start page where the user says, Hey, I want to do it right. I want to schedule a drive, test. The virtual agent ask, Hey, you know, I need additional information. Would you like to go ahead? If the user says, no, I couldn't find anything else? PAGE And on the anything else? PAGE perhaps we have the virtual agency, something like what else can I help you with? Right? So we have the virtual agent. Again. I come to the agent fulfillment and I enter the information here and that says, you know, what else can I help you with? Okay, let's round up this part of the conversation. If the user says no or nothing, then we end the conversation. So again, we see here that it turns out we usable. All I have to do here is come and select the confirm. But no, the confirm dot dot, no intents. Right. And if the user says no at this point in time, I'm going to end the conversation. So I'm going to say thank you for you know, thank you for contacting the DMV. Have a good day is what the agent will say here. Then I'll end the conversation. Now they are particular and should I say, pages that end conversation. So if you call here, I can see and the session and this will end the entire conversation. So I know I've been talking for a while and I've just been building, but let's see how this works, okay? If I don't do this right, then when I test this out, we should be able to come to the end. So let's say I start the conversation and I say, Hey, eventually get response. Welcome I’m the virtual agent for the DMV. How can I help you? And I say, I want to schedule a drive, test appointments. I hope everyone could see this. The regulation says, okay, in order to proceed, I will need to collect some additional information. Would you like to go ahead? The part of the flow I built out is the no part. And so I say no, I don't want to go ahead. And then it just says, okay, what else can I help you with? And then I say nothing. If I build this outright, nothing, it just says, Thank you for contacting the DMV. Have a great day. The conversation ends. So this is one part of the conversation that we built, and it seems like it's working just fine. Okay, let's go back to the point where we begin to branch out. And in this particular instance, what if the user says, yes, I want to go ahead. Okay, so let's create that roots again. I'm going to create a new intents and I'm going to call this intent confirmed that, yes. So I'm going to be able to use this again, you know, intent. I was usable. Let me provide a few examples of what a user might see if they wanted to see. Yes. So they might see yes, they might say sure. They might say, go ahead. They might say, yup. You know, they might say, you know, a whole host of things essentially. Yeah, yeah, Yes. Let's see. They might say, yeah, whatever the case may be. The point is, you want to provide enough examples of what the user might say and again, so I just create them. I confirm. Yes, I so in this instance, if the user says yes, I say, Great, let's go ahead. Was there a question I think I heard. Yeah, Tony, quick question on that one. So do I need to put in all the variations or if I said that sounds good, exists able to figure that out. You want to always look again when you create content, you want to provide, you know, between ten and 15 examples. You don't need to put in all the variations though, and you see here that I'm only providing four or five and it will work for a production environment. You want to provide as many examples. So to your point, you don't need to put in every single variation. The natural language understanding model will be able to figure out that yes, it's the same as go ahead or yes, is the same as, you know, sure. Example, and again, I'm not doing a good example. I'm providing a lot of similar examples in production. You want to give examples like you may proceed or. Sure. Stuff that's different, not just Yes and yeah, and stuff like that. Does that, does that answer the question? It does. That's perfect. Thanks. And then we had another question coming from Diego around multiple languages. So would you put all of those in the in the in that specific content and put different language responses or how would you. And that's a great question. The way that and I'll show you this definitely supports multiple different personas so you wouldn't be putting it in here. I would add a new language dialog. No, I will build an identical structure for me in a different language, so I will go to the corresponding page in the different language. Should I see of Dialogflow? And I'll show you that. Actually it's not really clear when I add a new language. You have an English environment and then you also have say, I added Spanish or something else. I'll be able to click on Spanish and I'll see if an identical flow sets up an identical page. So that's where I would go add this information. So not in this exact same place, but I'll show you exactly how to do that if you have something. Okay? And it would do the same natural language processing and stuff in that native language that that if that language or the absolute. Okay. Thank you. So I've come here and I've said you know if the user says yes, the response I want when the user said when a user says yes, you know, say, great, let's go ahead. So we're going to come here and say, hey, respond. Great. Let's go ahead, let I do that. I want to transition to a collect info page. You remember that we talked about the fact that I just said to the user, I want to collect some additional information, so I'm going to create a new page and I'm going to call this page, collect info. Okay, let's see. I go to the collect info page. Here's what I do. So you see now I've actually branched out. I have it. If the user says no, go in this direction or the user says yes, go in this direction. And he has the power. The visual flow builder is simple. You understand it. You can see here that if the user says no, we go to the anything else vs the end decision. If the user says yes, I now want to collect information and we talked about a number of things. I don't know that I talked about some entities and parameters, but you're going to see us build a form on this page. So what I want to do here is I talked about the fact that for that, no, I can simply ask for the I can have that will ask for the information and the listing for it, for the response, and determine that a particular kind of information isn't provided. What I'm going to do here is I'm going to ask for four different bits of information for different parameters. I'm going to ask for it. First name. I'm going to ask for a last name. I'm going to ask for a drive test location, and I'm going to ask for a date and time when you want to schedule the actual the actual appointment. So let's start off with defining the first parameter. And that also provides two groups of entities, the system entities. You know, that's essentially that Google is able to identify automatically. And then there's custom entities that you can build yourself. I'm going to use a system entity here, and I'm just going to call this particular entity first name and not very little, very imaginative. Okay. As for the user's first name, let me make sure that I build this right? Yes. First name, I'm going to go select a system entity. So you see here, all of these entities exist that would look and that kind of identify in a user's conversation with a date is the date period the time. But what I want here is name. And so the entity that corresponds to finding the first name is this dot given name. So I'm using this system entity here. And what do I want the user to, you know, what do I want to happen? How do I want to prompt for that? I want that look for me to say, please tell me your first name. That's what I'm going to put here. You see here? Because if you tell me your first name and if you want this to be more fluid, you can add some alternative so that it's not always the same, the same thing. You might want to say, what is your first name, for example? Okay, If you provide multiple options, if you simply choose, one will alternate between them. So in this case, what is your first name? Or please tell me your first name. When this happens, Dallas Law will ask the user. I will listen. And when a user says a person identified. So I just defined the first parameter and I've named it first name, I'm going to create another one because I want them to then ask for the last name and I'll call it last name. You can name these whatever you want. Then again, I'm going to use a system, a system entity. And the system entity for collecting last names is actually called this last name. And these are provided by Dallas. You don't need to do anything. So again, I've selected this last name or what I want the user to ask is something what I want the agents asking is something like, And what is your last name? So I'm going to come over here and I'm going to say, Agent ask. And what is your last name? You know, I can have the agency so I can add something like, Now tell me your last name, for example. You don't have to, you know, just for variety. So now tell me your last name. They didn't say that. Or what time does that begin? I created the second one, and next I'm going to go now, we've used to system entities, right? And then I'm going to ask for a location. Now, I live in New York and I'm actually in upstate New York, so I'm going to pick three locations that I upstate New York. Now, you could use just the name of a city. So if I wanted to just use city names, we have a system entity for identifying that. What I want to show you how to create a custom entity. So let's come here and I'm going to create a excuse me, I'm going to create a custom entity that I'm going to call drive test dash location. And I explained to you how this works. So I'm going to select entity types here and I'm going to see create and I'm going to name this drive test location. So what I'm saying here is Dialogflow you don't have to drive test locations in there and here are the three locations now, and I don't need synonyms in this instance. I just want to define three locations. I'm going to define a Rochester location. I'm going to define a Syracuse location, I'm going to define a Buffalo location. All I have to do here is give home here and say, okay, first Rochester, okay, then I'm going to add here, Syracuse. That's what I can spell. And Buffalo. Okay, so I've added these three as part of the drive test location. Again, I could have used cities, but I wanted to show this. So this might be perhaps your locations have different names. One location is called the Oak Ridge location and the other is called your maple leaf location or something. This is what we would do. You create a custom entity, you simply add those in here. Now Dialogflow will listen for these during the conversation and I can reference them using the drive test location. So let's go back to build and go back to the collect info page. And first I want to collect, like I said, the first thing that I want to collect the last name and now I want to add two more. And the next parameter I want, I'm going to call it drive, test location. I can call it whatever I want, actually, but it's simplicity. I'll call this drive test bash location. It's sort of identical to the entity I just created. And so here I can compute for that entity. I just read that you see it, I found it. And when I do that, I will the agent to ask the user, say something like, What location are you looking to take the drive test? It is what I want the agent. That's the point I want for the agents. So in this case, let's have the agent asked what location I drive tested, and then finally I will create one more because you want to know the location. But we also want to know the date and the time, essentially. So I'm going to create one more parameter in this form, and I'm just going to call this date time. Actually one second. The name is Dates. I want to name this date Dash time and Dallas Flow actually has a parameter called Date Dash Time, which will allow a the agent understand when you say here I want to do next week Wednesday at 2 p.m. or something of the sort so I'll select the date dash time and the prompt that I want is I want the virtual agent to say something like What's date and time? For example, Again, you understand this as we walk through. It's the date and time. So what I've just done here is I built a form and you can look at all the parameters. So first the virtual agent will ask for your first name, will then ask for the last name or ask for the drive test location, and it will ask for the date and time. You can see here all of the fulfillment or all of the agent dialog. Then it's going to use the request that information. So we've built out a form you saw in the previous example. Let me see how much time I had. John Please keep me when? When this 15 minutes more. Tell me. Tell you it's around this time. So you've got about 25 minutes. Ooh. Okay. I'm going to have to speed up. So when we, when we, when we create the form, I'm now going to use a conditional rules. I mean, you look at what conditional routes aren't. Remember that I told you the conditional roots happen when we meet a particular. Well, we wait in perfect condition. Happens now here there is some structure to do this and going to select the page the parents and I'm going to select suppose I'm going to type in status that will say final rights name what I just done. So this is stuff you do need to learn, but it's really simple. I'm saying that when all of the parameters on this page have a status of final, then I want to move to the next page. If the status is final, then I want the virtual agent to respond and I want it to actually use some of the information you just collected. Right? So I want the virtual agent to say it provided my name as Tony. I want this actually going to be okay, Tony. And the way that I do that is as soon as a user provides this information, the information is written to the session, so that parameter is available by the session. So here I'm saying I want the first name parameter that's available in this session. You see how that works here. And then when I do that, I also want to transition to a new page and that page I want to call confirm collected info. So I'll explain all of this shortly. So I want to confirm selected info. So the things that are happening here is where the user provides all the information. As long as all the information is properly provided. I want the virtual agent to say, okay, Tony, so that, you know, this provides a better experience. I just said, my name is Tony, personalize the experience and then I want to move to the collect to be confirmed collected info page. Okay. So we've done quite a bit of building here now where we move to the collect. So let's look at structure. We collect information and then what I want to do on this page, I've already said to personalize the experience. I'm saying, okay, Tony, you know, I then want to verify all of the information. Right? So when I transition to the page, I want the agent to say something like, Let's make sure I got that right. You would like to schedule at this time or this particular date. And that's what we're going to say on the confirm collected info page. So again, I'm going to come here and I want to use sort of the same setup that I used the last time. So let's take a look at this. I said, let's make sure and let's come over here. Let's make sure I got that right. Can anyone see this you would like to schedule for begin session parameter dates time, which is this is the time you want to schedule and reference in that that I just collected at the location session parameter drive, test, location, location. Is that correct? That's what the agent is going to respond. And if we built this right, we should be just fine. And then when we do that, there's going to be two options, right? Because the virtual agent is asking yes or no, do I want to do do did I get this right to get this wrong? So let's build out the path, the essentially let's build out the yes path. Again, this is where you will see why I said that intent. I would use it. All I need to do is com select the Yes confirm that. Yes. And if the response is a yes I will say great. I now have you scheduled. Let me just collect this. So if the user says yes you got that right. You know, I selected the conference this year. I'm going to have the virtual agent say. Great. I now have you scheduled. Okay. And at that point in time, once we do that, I want to transition to the anything else page. So again, you see here and be using a page I created earlier on and if I've done this right, we can go test it now. So let's look at what happens here. We collect the user's information. We confirm that the user information collected is accurate. If they see yes, we go to the anything else page and we end the session. Let's test this out. So I'm going to say hi. And the regulator says, How can I help you? I want to schedule a drive test appointments. Okay. In order to proceed, I will need to collect some additional information. Would you like to go ahead? If I see. Yes. Great. Let's go ahead. Please tell me your first name to say. Tell me your last name because I love 24 and to say I work here. What location are you looking to take the drive test in? I'm going to say Rochester, if I do this right, it says, A, what? Date and time I'm going to see next week, Wednesday at noon, he comes back and he says, okay, Jack, let's make sure I got that right. You would like to schedule four. And this is where you see, I talked about the nomenclature for the dollar session parameter you see here. I would like to schedule for next week. It knows that next week, Wednesday is the fifth of is the fourth of me at noon. And you see it has that information here at the Rochester location. Is that correct? And if I say yes, it transitions to the anything else, page it says, Great, I now have you schedule. What else can I help you with? And I see nothing. And thank you for contacting the DMV. Have a great day. So we've just built out an entire path, you know, an entire conversation filled here. But we're going around this. I want to add, you know, let's let's look at the situation where the user says no. So I want to show you is a bit more complex use case here. So in this particular instance, when I confirm the the the when I when I when I come to the page and I see, you know, is it correct, the user says, yes, we've walked through that. What if the user says no in this particular case we're going to close this? LC Everyone can see more clearly in this particular case in which we use the confirm, no, we can't. So if the user says, No, you didn't get this right, what I want the agent to do at this point in time is to say, you know what, I'm sorry, something you know, something along the lines of I'm sorry, I didn't get that right. So I'm sorry I didn't get that right and I'm going to be prompt, so let me remove that. So I'm sorry I didn't get that right. And I wanted to be pros. Okay. When it re prompts, when he asks me for the information, I don't want it to ask me for my first name. I don't want it to ask me for my last name again. So this is where parameter presets come in. I'm going to say I'm going to add a parameter presets and what I'm going to do is I'm going to say that's the only I'm going to take the drive test location. The only parameters that I want to be prompt for are the drive test location and the date and time. So I'm going to come here with the drive test location and I'm going to say set. That's a no, because if I don't set it to null, remember that we already collected it, right? This information and it's available in the session. I need to see modify that set that to null so that agent confirm for that. Again, what I want to do that for the drive test location and I also want to do that for date time. So again, date time, I'm also going to set to know and when I do that, I then once the virtual agents go back to the contact info page, so remember that only collect info, page it, ask for the first name you asked for the last name, then you ask for your location and then you ask for time. What I'm doing here is by setting these to know, I'm saying, Hey, you know, don't ask for the first name. Last name because we already knew what these are now and also ask for them again. So we're going to see how that works. And then I transitioned to the collect info page. So let's see if I built this correctly. Okay, I've set this up. And if you look at that, you see now that we have this arrow going back. So let's do this. I'm going to test and I'm going to use I'm going to go down that pathway. I see a new so if I say hi, the regulator says welcome, blah, blah, blah. I say I want to schedule a drive test appointment. Says, okay, would you like to go ahead? I will say, yes, I want to go ahead. And then they ask me, What is your first name? I'll say, My first name is Peter. And what is your last name? We're going to say Park Oracle. I'm going to go see Spider-Man soon. In this instance, what location are looking to take the drive test And I'll see the see your choose location. And you see here I don't have to type Jose or I can say whatever I want as long as I mention zero due to the conversation and will understand what date and time I'm going to see next week, Monday at two or 3 p.m. for example. Right. It and it says, okay, Peter, let's make sure I got that right. So you would like to schedule for next week of oh five or two, which is Monday at 3 p.m. is that correct? And I'm going to say no. And I'm sorry I didn't get that right. What location you looking to take the drive test. So you see, he didn't ask me for my name. My first name one, my last name. It goes directly to the drive test because I said those two. No. So this time I will see Rochester. We'll see. And what date and time. And I'll see you next week, Friday at noon. If I could only spell Friday correctly. They said, okay, Peter, let's make sure I got that right. You would like to schedule for next week, Friday, which is the sixth at noon at the Rochester location. Is that correct? And then I'll see this time. Yes, I'll transition to the. Anything else. Be great. I know. Have you scheduled what else can I help you with? And then I'll see nothing. So we have just built out the agent. Thank you for contacting the DMV. Have a great day. Looks like we've built out the virtual agent. A virtual agent? End to end. If there's any questions, put them in here. But this is what the experience is. Like this. So I have simplified this, but this is what it's like. It's 30 minutes or something. I built out this entire use case.

### Video - [Demo: Enable omni-channel support](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/video/469827)

* [YouTube: Demo: Enable omni-channel support](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RoiK7vKIeZ8)

Next, we're going to go and take a look at essentially an enabling omni channel. Right. And the two channels that I'm going to enable here are, first of all, the chat channel. I'm going to use Dialogflow Messenger, which is built into the console. So this is a solution that will give you essentially a piece of code you can put on your websites and we will have our chat widget down to Messenger available to you. And then also going to enable this for voice via what we refer to as the phone get. We am going to assign the phone number and I'm actually going to call in if we have enough time. So let's go in and enable this for and enable dialog through messenger in this instance. So first of all, you come to manage, you go to integration and you'll see here the dialog through Messenger, and I'm going to enable this. And once I've enabled it, I'm going to click right now and you can see here the widgets. So I click on the widgets and it provides me with this. And so if you look at the page right now, you see this block of code, all you need to do is copy this and you can put this on your web page and you will get this exact same widget. So let's walk through the process. I can see Hi, because back welcome to DMV How can I help you? Is scheduled to drive test appointments. It says okay, not unsupported. Collect my picture. Would you like to go ahead and I can see Yes. And then we can walk through the process. Let's go ahead. Please tell me your first name. What? I talked about rich messages. Right. So let's make this a little bit richer. Let's put in a few buttons. You know, let's let's let's make this, you know, let's provide a better experience for chats. And so what I'm going to do is I'm going to provide a custom payload. So let's go to the points in the conversation where there's actually a branch out. First of all, know where we ask, would you like to go ahead and go to come to the to the point where I ask this and I'm going to add an additional dialog. I'm going to say custom payload, and now there's a whole format for the went down to messenger. You see this would be the docs. But what I'm doing here is adding this information. It's essentially fairly simple for to adjacent format, but this should provide me with a two buttons a yes and a new option. Let me see. Where else do we have the yes and no? I think we also have a yes and no when we confirm the information. So when we say, let's make sure I got that right, you know, is that correct? And also going to add a yes and no. Here again, a custom payload, and we're going to paste this here. We'll say paste this here. See, let's go see how this makes the messenger experience different. So I'm going to go to DialogflowMessenger again, Integrations. Tony, I think we had a question, was it Sydney I so what was the question and not sorry. Sorry made it. I finish finish. I have a question that I want to ask of you. Okay, great. So I'm going to try it now and let's go through the process. So again, I say hello. The regulator responds, How can I help you? I want to see. I want to schedule a drive. Tests says okay. In order to proceed, I will need to collect some additional information. Would you like to go ahead and you see that I just provided a rich message here. So I say yes, says, Great, let's go ahead. Please tell me your first name. And this time I'm going to say Tony and tell me your last name. And because the of Marvel of the start and what else what locations are you looking to do? The drive test. Let's just make it simple. I'll say, what's the date and time? And I'll see you next week, Tuesday at 11 a.m., for example, we can walk through. Okay, Tony, let's make sure I got that right. You would like to schedule. Let's see, Tuesday is the third, 11 a.m. and watch the location. Is that correct? And I can see in this instance. So if I said no, I'm sorry, I didn't get our right location and I can go through the process again. So you see here how it's really simple to enable this for web. Now let's do the same for voice. In this case, I'm going to enable the Dialogflow phone gateway. So I'm going to click on Manage and I'm going to say, you know what? I want to create a new phone gateway. I want this essentially saying, Google, give me a phone number. Today, we only support U.S. phone numbers. And you can you can search for area codes, but you might not always get area codes you want. But the point is, it gives me a phone number. I'm going to pick the first 1818, blah, blah, blah. And then there's a conversational profile you need to define. And just going to call this learning profile one. Once I've done that, Google will assign me a phone number and you see here, I can take that phone number and I'm actually going to call. So I'm going to call the regulations. So I'm going to stop presenting for a moment. I'm going to add the virtually due to the call right now. And let's see what see how this works. So I'm going to call into the virtual agent everyone. I want to be quiet. So because it's going to hear everyone as we speak. Let's see what the experience is like. Sorry, can you say that again? So let me see. This is what happens when I do this. Amit, let me I'm going to I'll do this. Actually, I'll call on my phone and I will then I'll call on my cell phone. Well, you know what? Actually, let's see. You might all be able to hear this. If I use voice, let me know if you can hear this when I use voice. So, John, let me know if you hear this ring. When I used to do this sort of use. Welcome. And the virtual agent for the DMV. How can I help you? I would like to schedule a drive test appointments. Okay. In order to proceed, I will need to collect some additional information. Would you like to go ahead? Sure. Great. Let's go ahead. Please tell me your first name. Brian. Now tell me your last name. McDonald's. What location are you looking to take the drive test in the Rochester location and what date in time next week? Wednesday at 2 p.m.. Okay, Brian, let's make sure I got that right. You would like to schedule for the 4th of May 20, 22, 14 hours, 0 minutes and 0 seconds at the Rochester location, is that correct? Yes. Great. I now have you scheduled. What else can I help you with? Nothing. Thank you. Thank you for contacting the DMV. Have a great day.

### Video - [Module review](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/video/469828)

* [YouTube: Module review](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3rX1DXpm2uE)

What we've done is we've built out this workflow and I'm going to round up now just one more slide. You've seen here how we built out the virtual agents and we provided which messaging we've branched off, we've done the prompts, we've enabled it for omni channel. And what we're going to do is let's look at what's going to say, I want you to see the exact flow that I just walk through here. So this is the experience you've just created, and perhaps I could have showed you this at first. So I'm going to share my desktop. Let's take a look at the review again. This was a use case of scheduling appointments and here's what is happening behind the scenes. So I can actually just says welcome. And you know, I'm the virtual agent for the DMV. Then I said I would schedule drive test appointments. At this point, we matched the scheduled brightest intent. That's what happens. So now the virtual agent knows what to do. It says, okay, not as proceed. I will need to collect some additional information. Would you like to go ahead? And at this point, we match the confirm. Yes. Intense. Remember that created a confirm. Yes. And. We then move on and say yes. He says, great. Let's go ahead. What is your first name? And I provide information. Now, this is the form. Remember that I created a form with four parameters. First name, last name, drive, test, location and date time. So it continues. So when I say Brian understands that that's the first name, we then say, What is your last name? I see. McDonald So now it also has my last name. We proceed and then it says, What location are you looking to take? Drive test in. When I see what? Just remember that I created a custom entity rather than using the system identifies that I would register locations, it extracts that parameter. We then move that and said what date and time again? I said Next week, Wednesday at noon and again I use this system parameter to remember this system parameters and this custom parameters. It uses the system parameter datetime and identifies the exact time it says, okay, Brandon, let's make sure it's someone say something. Yeah. Tony So quick question on the date time, there was a good question in there from R Can you change? I believe it said it said 14 hours or something. Can you change the format of the time that it speaks? Absolutely. We actually have specific functions. The system functions exactly for system function that allows you format that, so you can format that to 24 hours, You can eliminate the seconds at the end. I use the default, but you can format that anyway. Cool. Thank you. Great. So it says, okay, Brian, let's make sure I got that right. You would like to schedule blah blah, blah. Is that correct? Again, I use the so we're using intents all over the place and we're using the confirm. Yes. Then it says, Great, and I have your schedule. What else can I help you with? And at this point I say no and nothing. And then it matches the confirm no and then ends the conversation. So just run to that. Okay. Well, I could show you all of the parameters that we extracted. Now, this is really important. This is one of the greater features where features of data to see if and I look as we walk through providing parameters or responding to these questions, it's collecting all of that information and it's making them available to the session, which is why I was able to reference them by scene dollar session. The doc params dot the name of the of the parameter. So if I wanted to use the data that was provided or perhaps the first name at any point in the conversation, all I have to use is that nomenclature. When I say dollar session docs params dot name of the parameter. I can reference this at any point so that it looked. Yes, it was a bit of a challenge. You know, I can reference this down the conversation in fact, think about a use case where it uses provided you the first name, a last name if scheduled, or appointment. Excuse me, the entity. Wait, I want to do something else. I still notice Brian. I can still respond to it. Okay. Brad, what would you like to do now? And that's the beauty of Dialogflow CX you see the information is collected. I can reference now a date time parameter is it is in what we refer to as a complex parameter. I can reference just the year. I can reference just the hour. I can reference just the minutes. All of these I can reference ascension. So I wanted to just show you this. We built out the solution we have walk through a complete use case. We've provided rich messaging, which was, you know, the buttons that you saw there. We've enabled this. The only channel you've seen the Dataflow Messenger as well as the the form Gateway. And I called in. You can see you can do all of this in 30 minutes. In half an hour, you can build out the entire use cases here. So what are the next steps here? First of all, that is an amazing series on YouTube called Deconstructing Chatbots. I put a link in the deck here. It covers Dialogflow ES but since we’re focused on that episode 16 to 20 to go watch it. I mean, each of these are just about 3 to 5 minutes. It'll be a great use of your time. Next, there's a Dialogflow CX quicklab, which is really great, will walk you through, you know, just reinforcing the concepts that are going to play here. Starting off really simple and then building up to the advanced stage. And then also without physics, there's a more charged trial. So every customer receives about $600 credits as part of the no charge trial. And this simply goes down the policy and start building with members of the team that want to do this. You get $600. It'll take a long time to use up. $600 can probably build multiple agents for $600. So take advantage of that. John mentioned this earlier. I was going to say, you know, join the public sector cloud community. There's a ton of great conversation going on in that community. And then finally, my goal was to show you how simple this is. In 30 minutes, we've built on an entire use case, so get building.

### Lab - [Conversational Agents: Bot Building Basics](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/labs/469829)

Build a conversational agent

* [ ] [Conversational Agents: Bot Building Basics](../labs/Conversational-Agents-Bot-Building-Basics.md)

## Google Translation Solutions

This module gives an introduction to Google's translation solutions, and explains the benefits of translating documents.

### Video - [Module introduction](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/video/469830)

* [YouTube: Module introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QBvHZvgapPI)

Awesome. Great. Well, thank you and welcome to everyone. Very happy to be here today. Just a little bit of background about myself before I jump into the presentation itself. I have been a member of the Global Public Sector team almost since the very beginning, as in 2017 when I joined Google and prior to joining Google, I have spent about four years as a California state employee working in the Department of Health Care Services, as well as the Department of Technology, and I'm very excited to be sharing with you today around our our product solution, in this case, Enterprise Translation Hub or I will often be referring to it as ETH, but more importantly, how we're using this tool with our customers to be able to scale, scale, translate the capacity, the quantity of translations that we're able to do, but ultimately for the purpose of increasing the access that our constituents have to government, as well as providing more in terms of equity for the diverse constituency that we have. So we are we're going to talk about some of the background of of technology that goes into this. But we're we're also going to talk about some of the common patterns of challenges. But this bullet point number four, I'm very excited that today we're going to be able to go into a demo that where we can show the product that has now gone to, which is generally, generally available earlier in this month. And there are I'm very excited about some of the template capabilities that will for folks who work in language access will be very familiar with which is the being able to to predefined some of our essentially standardizing some of the work that we're doing in equity and access by having a predefined for our users whether they're their business users or internal and external stakeholders to be able to accelerate that. So with that being said, I'm going to I'm going to give a quick overview of some of the Google solutions that are being used and being built upon to provide the solution. And then I'll take a quick pause for questions and then we'll go into to the rest of the agenda here.

### Video - [The history of translation at Google](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/video/469831)

* [YouTube: The history of translation at Google](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OeNK9oJOY0M)

So when it comes to Google translation solutions, many, many folks are familiar with our iPhone or excuse me, their iPhone or Android applications that are capable of translating things on the fly, whether that's in text form or in audio, or even being able to to live, use the onboard camera and to translate pictures and videos that are being being sent. Google has been doing this since the early 2000, specifically in 2006 when Google started in the statistical machine translation, which you'll see the example of just a second. And as we progress from 26 forward to 2009 and beyond, you'll see the introduction of those beloved Android and iOS applications as well as Google making this available for integrations with different applications, increasing the number of languages which you see in that animation on the right hand side as the number of bars increases. That's increasing the number of languages that Google is capable of translating. And you'll see that as time goes on, the increase in the bars is the increase in the fidelity or the quality of the translations in terms of natural readability for for translations that are being presented for for human review. And we're very excited to see these recent advancements in 2018 where auto machine learning is able to create a customization of a model specific to your domain, in this case government, as well as our ability to offer them as APIs and also the media translate API. So a quick call out regarding this, the statistical machine translation and where we've come from, those early days in 2006 you'll see on the left hand side, that's our our statistical machine translation. And on the right hand side are more modern, improved neural machine translations where you see for the very first sentence initially we described as 19,710 feet of the mountain versus referring to the mountain of 19,710 feet. So it's this it's the same information, the same source, but a more readable output for for humans who may be naturally English readers and speakers. And what this is all led to is very high quality out of the box translations for both our our baseline models as well as our customized what we refer to as AutoML translations. That is not only with internal data as well as by third party external sources. So line bridges is not a company affiliated with Google in any way. We actually did not provide any data, nor do we do. We sponsored this research. This was their their independent evaluation of different machine translation vendors from both a baseline perspective and a machine learning perspective for a variety of different domains as well as languages.

### Video - [Google Translation API overview](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/video/469832)

* [YouTube: Google Translation API overview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IB6LYpawm74)

At its core, what Google provides in terms of translation sits on top of our internal our technical APIs, and that's what provides access to 100 plus different languages. I believe it's around 108, 109 with another 20 or 30 coming. Pretty soon we're able to do language detection. We can integrate with the rest APIs. And I purposefully presented these slides here to show how while we have these capabilities there in some regards somewhat technical. So for folks who may not be familiar with coding, Rest API is a foreign language, no pun intended, and may be kind of difficult for them to use. And as we move forward into our advanced versions of our APIs, we're adding the capability for solutions such as glossary, batch translation, as well as auto machine learning, which I'll touch on in the next slide. And what these technologies allow for us to do is to customize these translations with our domain specific terms, meaning that we can now teach the model of which specific words to override. So for one example, I commonly shares around the word of a driver, and so is this are we referring to a driver in terms of someone who is driving a car or are we talking about a golf driver that could be a club used to hit a golf ball? Or could this be a driver that is a firm where a piece of a piece of a computer that's that's technology based. So we can now in a particular context, be able to override certain domain terms and have the system understand that you're taking that a step further with auto machine learning instead of giving it words and phrases to override, we're now giving it entire sentences. And instead of a direct override, what we're doing is we're teaching the model by building a custom neural network. And by the way, the reason why we call it automation learning is because Google is abstracting away the work of the data sciences, having to to separate the test and the validation and the training dataset during the over under fitting of learning rate and agreeing to send an all about where we're doing that on on Google Cloud and presenting the best fitted model for your translation use case and making that available as an API. So what this allows for us to do is something like this where at the very top you see the original source in English and in that middle section there is a translation of that same text in English to Hindi. However, you're noticing, for example, the brand name YSL. That's not being translated because the system is essentially recognizing that as the acronym and it's leaving it alone. It's recognizing, Oh, this is maybe a airport code abbreviation like SJC, and not doing anything with that, which is it's not a bad place to start. It's it's an improvement versus trying to translate or to to change something. But what we see here on the very bottom is when we apply a glossary and a on a machine learning model, we're able to override directly those those brand names. So why sell should always be translated when it's in Hindi to a particular phrase which has been defined there in that orange color. And then also training auto machine learning model to more naturally correct instead of a very direct literal translation of a leather bag to have a more colloquial and well understood way of referring to that leather bag in Hindi. There's two other examples here, one from the travel side and one from finance. You'll see where we were able to use glossary to to essentially force that transliteration of that place name into Hindi as well as the name of a person to be understood as as a particular override that we want to apply to ensure that it's always translated a particular way. And lastly here this one example of of finance. So that's all well and good that that leads to us being able to, to have applications like the Google Translate application of iOS and Android, where you can see here, you can point the device to a word in a particular language and have it translated on the fly with a R augmented reality overlay and which is great, and that's useful. But going from APIs to Hey, how do we improve the outcome for our constituents, which in this case equity access is one. We'll go through a couple examples, but there are other use cases where that's that's critically important. And how do we go from APIs and technical back to be able to derive value from that. So with that being said, with any questions on what I presented thus far, and if not, I'll go ahead and move on forward to, to Enterprise Transition Hub and documentation documents.

### Video - [Documents](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/video/469833)

* [YouTube: Documents](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_1PcqWiRURQ)

Awesome. So having worked in the government. One of the considerations that I that I commonly understand when it comes to documents is there are many processes within the government and outside the government that started their lifecycle as documents and this may be application form, this may commonly be notices or bulletins or announcements and information that's being shared for a variety of purposes that that start and end their life cycle as documents. Whether that is a Google doc or could be a Microsoft format, it could be drafted into a presentation such as the one I'm giving now, or maybe even a PowerPoint presentation. And what we want to do is we want to leverage these tools beyond just the technology of being able to flip something from one language to another is to really benefit our constituents, whether that is measured in outcomes such as improved health or it's measured in a reduced time for them to receive care or services, or simply having the understanding of what services are available to them in their language is a very useful outcome for our constituents. For a couple of examples of what this might look like when it comes to health care, this is very at the top of everyone's mind when it comes to access and equity for health care. You'll see here there are some data sheets when it comes to the COVID 19 vaccines. In this case, this is for the Pfizer Biontech. On the left hand side, you see that there is a PDF here. This is from the FDA's website on the federal government and it's pretty clearly drafted as a as a document, a word doc or Google doc to start. And then it was PDFd in order to make it readily accessible on the Internet for folks who maybe are mobile browsers or in different sorts of systems. And they've actually done a tremendous job, really great job here translating this document into Spanish and Uzbek, Portuguese and all those languages you see there. In order for folks to make a decision around whether this vaccine is right for them and whether they it's something that will will benefit their health and to make a decision regarding their vaccines. However, if you notice that there while there is parity to many languages, there is not necessarily the same parity to, for example, Japanese speakers or Arabic speakers or other languages in addition to those that are that are not covered. But I want to call out that they've done an amazing job translating that. But we wish this were available to even more constituents. And it's analog there on the right hand side, you see the Pfizer Biontech frequently asked questions on their websites and they have it in English. They can drop down and get the details around the vaccine. However, this language parity did not extend and in this case they able to offer it. You'll see there in there's a little button that says Espanol. So users can click that to get it in Spanish, but only Spanish. So if they're now Uzbek speakers, Portuguese, Tagalog, Vietnamese, Russian, etc., that's simply no longer available for them. And it makes it harder for for users to make informed decisions around health care if they have frequently asked questions. We also see this when it comes to our relief efforts for rent relief. And these are a very common news article where residents have expressed that they're not able or not comfortable getting services because of their the lack of having those those particular items in other languages that they understand. Switching gears just a little bit, we actually have talked with many customers recently that are leveraging translation when it comes to communications departments, social media and when it comes to emergency response and public health. These are the the the business value is is not so much just the cost savings that come with leveraging technology for translation, but more so the benefit is to the people in terms of being able to get a return translation that's able to be published in a timely manner. So oftentimes when we're when we're talking about wildfire response or public health emergencies such as COVID, this information may be changing on a day by day, hour by hour, even potentially when it comes to wildfires, could be a sub. Our response and being able to notify constituents accurately in all languages to say, hey, here's where the direction of this is heading. You know, here's the evacuation or, you know, prepare to be evacuated orders in different languages in a manner where it's very hard for us to leverage traditional translation approaches in terms of sending that out and receiving that back in a timely manner in which it's still relevant. And sometimes we send things out and we may not get them back for a couple of days on the very fast end. And that leads to information that, while it's translate accurately, is no longer useful.

### Video - [Common patterns and challenges](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/video/469834)

* [YouTube: Common patterns and challenges](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EE_56pCxDzs)

So historically, how we have seen our customers approach translation and document transition in particular is to leverage third party vendors as the one primary approach where they're taking we're documents or Excel's or PowerPoints or PDFs, and they're working with third party vendors and they're being charged usually on the lower end, about $0.11 a word with a $75 per language per document minimum. And what we're seeing here is that the turnaround time oftentimes is is in the order of 5 to 10 business days. I've seen some customers who have worked with their vendors to get that down to maybe about one or two business days at 24 to 40 hours turnaround time. However, we're seeing that this doesn't really scale to tens or hundreds of documents. So if you have the need and this could also be number of languages as well. So if you have one document that needs to be translated to one other language, they may be able to do that in a day or two. But if you say, hey, I need this this same source, but we now need it in ten or 12 different languages, they need to find 12 people. They usually have them on staff, but they need to find those people who speak those languages to work on that and to get them back. Last couple of points here, which which I'm seeing in customer conversations is of critical importance, is we want to be able to customize translations, but very importantly, we want to have a standardization. And why that's important is because when we work with different vendors or different translators within those vendors, you may have a different voice or a feel for that translation. And that leads to we want to kind of have a consistent voice of communication with our constituents in order to continue to build that solid, firm foundation of communication between constituents and government, as well as that long term trust. So working with vendors, what this looks like is we we're looking at a couple of assumptions here where we're using just $0.11 in the low end with a $75 minimum. Looking at translating a document to 12 languages, we're assuming a certain point. We're estimating there's roughly 250 pages to the 50 words per page, which for a double spaced page. And looking at that pricing and what we're seeing is even on the low end for a ten page document for that to be translated into 12 languages, that's very quickly over $3,000, which eats up budgets pretty quickly. In addition to those turnaround times and other items that I had mentioned earlier, The second main approach that we have seen our constituents use is to have their staff, their line staff do manual translation. And while this does work, oftentimes what we're seeing is they're using a combination of technology and the human, which is something that we'll also see in the Enterprise Translation Hub. But what where this is not so costly in terms of dollars. This is very costly in terms of the soft cost. So that that means taking folks away from their normal line of work where they're experts and subject matter expertise is very valuable. And while their language skills are extremely valuable, oftentimes the work that they're doing to translate this is, for example, copy this, paste it into Google Translate, make any corrections for for the way that natural language and then copy and pasting that back in the document, having to then figure out where does this go back into the document is which word was bolded, which do I need to realign? This is in the bulleted or numbered list. Is it is it is there parity between these two documents? And again, we still run into this issue with standardization across interpreters and it's very difficult to scale that that human side to tens or even hundreds of documents and beyond. So with that being said, I'm going to take a quick pause and ask if there have any questions or have you seen this in their in their expenses? Which translation is that? Is that accurate or maybe not accurate? And I would love to hear any thoughts or input or questions from the audience before we go into what Enterprise Translation Hub is, how we can help. We're actually going to see a lifetime of that today and take questions there as well.

### Quiz - [Quiz: Google Translation Solutions](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/quizzes/469835)

#### Quiz 1.

> [!important]
> **What is a benefit of using Google's translation hub, instead of a  3rd party vendor?**
>
> * [ ] There are often legal implications when using 3rd party vendors.
> * [ ] 3rd party vendors are often expensive and slow.
> * [ ] Google's translation hub does everything for you.
> * [ ] Translation by 3rd party vendors can be customized, so there is more room for error.

#### Quiz 2.

> [!important]
> **Health documents commonly need to be translated so that they can be accessible to multiple groups of constituents. Which is a common challenge of health document translation?**
>
> * [ ] A lack of translation resources.
> * [ ] These documents require specific knowledge for translation.
> * [ ] A lack of clarity around which documents to translate.
> * [ ] A lack of language parity across documents.

#### Quiz 3.

> [!important]
> **The Google Translation API provides translation to how many different languages?**
>
> * [ ] 50
> * [ ] 75
> * [ ] 200+
> * [ ] 100+

#### Quiz 4.

> [!important]
> **The Translation API glossary is used to do what?**
>
> * [ ] Support more languages out of the box.
> * [ ] Leverage phrases and sentences to enhance accuracy.
> * [ ] Automatically translate text
> * [ ] Customize translations with domain-specific terms.

#### Quiz 5.

> [!important]
> **What translation advancement took place in 2018?**
>
> * [ ] Neural Machine Translation was invented.
> * [ ] Auto Machine learning could create a domain-specific customization of the model.
> * [ ] Translation was made available for Android and IOS applications.
> * [ ] Additional languages were added to Google Neural Machine Translation.

## Enterprise Translation Hub

This module gives an overview of the Google Translation Hub and and gives a demo of how to use it.

### Video - [Translation Hub Overview](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/video/469836)

* [YouTube: Translation Hub Overview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qCo5zwH3idU)

So we're now going to talk about what Google has built in terms of the Enterprise Translation Hub and how that can be useful for equity and access as well as many other use cases such as the emergency response that we discussed earlier. So I'm very excited about this because again, this is now generally but generally available. And available to the public. And we can actually show some of the great features of that. Working on what the Google Enterprise Translation Hub is, is a enterprise. It's built for the enterprise. And what it is, is really a self-service model when it comes to translation. So it takes those tools that that billions of users have become very familiar with and we we've when we say we've built them for the enterprise, what that means is we have built in the ability to do custom translations where we understand it's not just general speech that we're translating there. For example, when it comes to government public facing communications or health care, there are there are real downstream impacts and we need to be able to leverage technology to not just translate things, but to incorporate a human in that loop as well as to customize them so that we get accurate translation as there are consequence to not having that when it comes to accuracy. And very importantly here, Rich, lay out retention. This is huge because we no longer have to do the manual copy paste work of taking content, translating, and then against eyeballing or steering, compare sticking it back into a word document or into a Google slide or into a PowerPoint or into a PDF. And we want to again, make that easy to use for for business users who may not be technical. And I want to call out here that while it is not directly intended for website translation, there are some analogs that it could be used to streamline some of that work. But we do have capabilities to translate websites in some ways. And interested. Shameless plug. I'm actually the product owner for enterprise website Translation and Media Translation. So if there is any interest there, please feel free to reach out directly to me. And yep, there are some features that are coming as part of our advanced rollout that are coming soon and I'll do my best to call those out as I go through the slides here. Yeah, so what the translation hub allows for us to do is bring, bring the highly technical work of translation directly to our users. And what this means is business users are going to be able to upload their documents directly from their local machine. They can select their target language and get a high quality translation in a matter of seconds. We can keep the the document formats and we'll see more examples as we go. But one example on the left and on the right hand side of this slide, you see the first picture on the left side that that is a document from L.A. County where it has the seal and on the right hand side, you'll see that it's translated, but it's keeping the formatting of the the center alignment for the headers as well as the spacing for for the sections that come below. And for the Enterprise administration, we're bringing in all of the security and encryption and encapsulation access control, best practices that come along with GCP as well as our the ability for us to deploy this or quite. And again, the best part about this is it does not require heavy systems integration or any systems integration at all from from the IT administrator side, very, very easy all through a point and click interface. Yeah. Users will be able to to quickly with one click translate across all of these these formats here. So PDFs documents that includes Microsoft as well as Google documents PowerPoints and slides to to 108 different languages while being able to leverage all of those tools that we had mentioned earlier. So the AutoML or Glossaries and the quality predictions, the ones with asterisks are coming soon. So just a quick call out there. And very importantly that post editing is what we refer to as human in the loop. And that is a critical component of this where we understand that humans are not really ever going to be replaced when it comes to translation. And so incorporating them as part of the workflows and approvals so that when they do reviews, there are things like notifications, approvers that can be either the same or separate. And having that being routed through so users can see the status of their document at every step of the journey. So wait, so you're saying our translators could actually be in the process if we already have translators on staff or people or they wouldn't have to do the manual creation and incorporate it into the new language. They could actually just review the output, approve it and modify it. Yes, absolutely. And we have we're working on tools to make that very easy. So we do the you know, we put the source on the left hand side and the output on the right hand side. So there's not as much staring and figuring out what comes from where, what was translated to what, and integrating those quality predictions, of course. So a quick call and thanks for that, John. A quick call out here. When we say post editing, this can be a combination of your your in-house staff that you already have working on translations. It can be a combination of in staff together with a enterprise translate vendor that you currently are already working with and have developed a good relationship. We understand that while we're we're leveling up the work that's being done, those are still very valuable relationships and we should continue those. And it doesn't have to be one or the other. It can be a hybrid approach. And we're also working in the future too. We understand that, hey, if we're now giving customers the capability before we're limited by cost or by time or by language skills to translate from one language to 3 to 5, and we're now going to ten or to 15 or to 20. There may be a gap there in terms of who we have on staff or who are vendors can provide. We're working on some enterprise partnerships to bridge that gap in the mean time. So we're able to expand that without having to particularly look for that in-house or have to have that come from our vendors. So that that's a really key thing that is coming soon as well. Great point. And lastly, we're building this office to create security. So now that this is available, this falls under our enterprise terms of service, which means that none of your your document data that is is your data is being used to train our models. We're not using that to improve our translations. That data and encryption is completely yours. We don't have access to it where all of the standard controls and encryption that come along with Google Cloud are now in corporate as part of that. And there's no no worries there. I think that's a good call out when you showed Google Translate. Like that's a kind of a commercial offering that's kind of free with no real SLA. I mean, while we definitely protect customer data and operate that at the highest level, it doesn't come with any of those assurances that you get from an enterprise service like that. You just go to the website and copy it in your agency's documentation. That's probably not considered a best practice that's around information security. Good call out.

### Video - [Documents in ETH](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/video/469837)

* [YouTube: Documents in ETH](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OITI6ckvELo)

What does this mean for for our users? This means that we are able to offer significantly lower costs for our government users, as well as the ability to have that estimated and capped so that we don't have any overages. We're able to incorporate translation memory. We're able to are able to get transactions back almost instantaneously in a matter of seconds and minutes. We can now scale documents beyond tens or hundreds, even into the thousands of documents while retaining all of those customizations. We can have a standard consistent voice across our interpreters and get our our online staff back to their their valuable work that they're doing for our residents. And again, not having to do that copy and paste and back and forth and back and forth. So a couple examples here, and then we're actually going to go into a live demo where we get translation documents and see what that looks like. This is one of our slide decks where we have the source in the upper left hand side and you'll see it. And in one go I took this without having to do any post editing. I took this from English into Spanish, into Chinese, into Korean, while preserving the pictures were left alone. It is translating the verbiage. And you notice that even the the text within that paragraph block says accelerate innovation. That's bolded. That's that's the only words that are bolded when you look into the output languages there as well, regardless of the language that it's that it's being put into. One other slide from the slide deck here and the one color on this slide here is you'll see here at the bottom left hand corner, there is a URL. And for the the languages in the in the Chinese language and the Korean language, it actually flipped it around and put it on the left hand side because of the grammatical way that the different languages are operating in that context. One example here, and I'm going to I'm going to go from a Google example to a government example here and the call out here at the bottom is you'll see that this is a word document, a Microsoft Word doc in Doc Docs. There's actually a smart footer element where it has the attachment that says so in the source. Doc there is a smart text that said insert page number here, page one of seven and you'll see in the output the system. When it translated to Spanish, it makes it a little bit longer because of the nuances of language translation that's expected, but it's now recognizing, oh, there are nine pages here now, sort of seven. And it is figuring out that and using the same smart element to down display page one of nine instead, as well as flipping that date around. So you'll see that in the States, we're used to a convention of month date in year. And then for many of Latin speaking countries that is flipped around where it's the date first, then it's the month, that is the year. And the system flip that around for us as well. Going from English to Spanish to it. Lastly, why does this matter when it comes to scaling capacity? We see an example of taking one word doc and translate into ten different languages where we're seeing traditionally we're paying about a minimum of $900. That's $75 minimum times 12 languages. We need to wait and then usually we pull our staff to review that again. When it comes back and again we repeat it necessary and we pay the vendor. If we needed corrections with Google Solution, we'll upload a word doc, we'll set our 12 languages and we'll get them back immediately, all in 12 different languages, in 12 different files with our styling. If we have glossaries or other customizations applied directly to that. And why that matters for scale is when we now look at ten input documents, we're now looking at a minimum of $9,000 when it comes to translating these documents, plus the weight that comes along with that and pulling staff to review 120 output documents is quite significant. But with with the Google Solution and Enterprise Translation Hub, we just upload 10 input documents instead of one and we set up those same 12 languages with those customizations and we click go and we get that back in a matter of seconds and minutes. With all of that, that translation accounted for, including that formatting as well. Yeah. So with that being said, that's the, that's kind of the slide where and then I want to kind of go into the demo where we can see this slide, but before we do, I wanted to see if there's any questions that the audience had before, and if not, then I'll go ahead and jump out of the presentation and into the demonstration. If you just if you did mention something about the the fixed cost and the way that that's kind of done, can you highlight it from a pricing perspective since we have minimum $75, like assuming this is a one page document or let's say it's a ten page document to keep the math simple, it's like what is the pricing of enterprise? Yeah, absolutely. Great question. So for example, if we're comparing apples to apples, where if we had that ten page document, what we'd be looking at is the difference in how enterprise translation, how from a I want to differentiate between MSP and how our government customers can leverage this with the standard pricing, what you would be looking out for one language going, one document of ten pages going into another language would from a start from a base, a basic perspective would be on the order instead of $75. At a minimum, you'd be looking maybe a dollar and $0.50. So dramatic cost savings. In addition to getting that back almost instantaneously, so into ten languages would be $15 versus three over 3000 for the same work that's being done. But what we want to call out is we have the ability to work with our government, government customers only to estimate their particular translation workloads. And what we we understand about government purchasing is that our customers, they don't necessarily want to be thinking about, Oh, if I translate this document, it's going to be a dollar 50 or it's going to be it's going to be for 50. If I translate that into three different languages and being in a situation where if they end up their users end up overusing it, where they now have to go back with a budget change proposal or request for more money, that doesn't really work well. And so with with the amount of savings that we're able to offer, what we usually do is we work with our customers to estimate what their translation workloads would be building in a estimation for, Hey, if we're now translated to two languages, but we're going down to five, you know, the increase in the amount of languages and come to come to a workload where we're able to make that not have any overages. So if your users end up overusing the service, there's not a true up at the end of that. So that's a high level overview of how that could work. So that's great. Thanks. Just yeah, I think that the key there is that just the, the, the factor of, of savings that you have across each document and how it opens up the opportunity to translate more documents, you know, you have to make a decision when you're looking at this $9,000 cost to pay a vendor, you have to prioritize what are the most impactful documents that you can deliver to your constituents. I think now you can basically say, okay, what is all the documents that that would would make sense to do that translation job to do so many trade offs is as much.

### Video - [Demo: Translation Hub](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/video/469838)

* [YouTube: Demo: Translation Hub](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zrz8qxtbGFs)

So now that this product is launched and generally available, what I'm going to show you here, this is the admin console and I'm going to come back to this. But what I wanted to emphasize here is that if you notice here, this is all point and click. There is no coding required at all, even from an IT administration site and management of users. It's it's literally you come in here, you click add users, you can type them here or you can bulk import directly from a CSV file and upload hundreds of users at a time. There's no need to to write any command line or do any work here. So what this looks like for your business end users is once you create a portal for them to go into, they would land in an interface that looks exactly like this and the system will understand which portals they have access to and they could either use single sign in with Google or if you want, you can have your your third party stakeholders or maybe your viewers. We're doing your post editing. They have an email sign and a password option here and what this is really great for is you're able to grant access to folks who may be stakeholders without having to give them access to your Active Directory and your tenancy, which for I.T. Security is a really, really great thing. What I'm going to do is sign in here with Google using single sign in and because I'm already signed in as me, it already recognizes who I am and knows which portals that I have access to. In this case, I have access to the two of these so you can select between basic in advance. The advance is coming soon. So for today, I'm going to go into the basic site and you'll see that they're dropped into this very familiar what Google refers to as like a material design. They're like, this looks very similar to many of our other Google products where it's a it's a point and click interface. And when I click select file, it won't show the box because I'm presenting the window. But this just loads a box where I can select a local file from my computer to be uploaded and translated. So this again, this can be a word document, it can be a PowerPoint file, it can be a PDF file, it can be the Google equivalents of those. So it could be a Google doc or a Google slide. This also has direct integration with Google Drive. So if you're using Google Drive and I'm going to show an example of that, you can click here and this will authenticate and you can pull directly from your Google Drive documents to be translated from from that Google Drive. Okay. So what I'm very excited about is what I'm going to do is I'm going to select a file and in this case, I'm going to take a word file as well, and you'll see that word document here. It's going to upload it and give us a preview of that document here. And this is a public facing document. And what you can do is you'll see on the right hand side, there are these templates. One has been created by admin, the other can be created by users where they can say, Hey, these, these are the languages that I commonly translate into. So there may be a stakeholder group that is for Asia-Pacific and the languages that they go to that are required are English to Chinese, to traditional Chinese, to Indonesian, Japanese and Korean. And you can see them here and they can each have their own specific glossary identified with them. So as an admin, if you're a jurisdiction, always translates into the same five or six languages as an admin, you can predefined that for your users and say, Hey, when we have a communication that goes outbound, it must go into language one, two, three, four, five. Right? And the users can just click that it's already done for them. Users can also this API and the threshold languages, this is set by the user. So this is actually user defined and applies just for this particular user that's logged in. Or you can completely start new, right? So you can start a new translation here. I'm going to click Arabic as well as let's go German and the Chinese one and let's pick one more, go Korean. Okay, So I'm now telling the system I want to translate this one document from English to these four output languages. If I want to select any glossaries here, I can do them on this screen as well as I have the option to save this as a template. So if I commonly go from English to these four languages, I can essentially save that for the future, which is a new feature. And we think this is quite useful for, for this sort of use case. You notice here it says for these three languages there is no available glossary because we haven't uploaded one, but it recognizes that from going from English to Arabic we do have one. So if we want to apply that, we can select them here and we can go ahead and click translate here. And some of these will return quicker than others, but you'll see that they'll start coming back. This is a few seconds here, and the glossary would take like common terms that were maybe industry specific or government and then transition. That's correct. Correct. Yeah. And those are those are user defined. So for example, it's very useful for terms that you always want to translate a certain way or brand names from retail. For example, if you had the term Nike or Air Jordans or just do it those, you want to make sure that was consistent in the government. It could be, for example, the county of Santa Clara. We want to make sure that's always translate a particular way or the Department of Health or there may be a more formal way of saying something. You can essentially override that, Correct. Okay. I figure this one has a COVID 19, so we could create something right? Correct. And you can also interesting use case for glossaries. You could actually use it to essentially you can trick the system to to not translate certain things. So if you want COVID 19 to in every language to to not to be transliterated or Romanized or switched in any way, you can essentially tell it that and it works really well for that as well. So you see a recognized like CHC as acronyms and I just didn't touch them. You can also use it. We'll see one example today where we use glossary to expand that in the output language so that users, if they're not familiar with the acronym in a non English language, they can understand what that is. So you see here we got this translation back and we can, we can page through this side by side. And you notice here on the right hand side, this is now a five page document. The source was three, and that's expected because we can't control word length when it comes to translation. Sometimes it will be longer, sometimes it will be shorter. But if you notice here, page two of three right here on the left hand side, in the right hand side, you'll see that Arabic is a right to left language, right. So it can also go between left to right and right to left. Written languages. You'll see here it says page two of five. That's actually saying oh five. So it recognizes, hey, this is a a longer document now and the smart text has a counter for that. These URLs work. So if we export this document, these URLs retain their their pointer to where they're pointing. Okay. And you can see here this this document has now been translated into a separate the paging. Okay. Okay. So page that and if you look here at Chinese, I now took this one document and you'll see the formatting is retained so I don't need to redo these bullet points. Right. What I'm translating, which is huge in terms of the amount of effort that our our folks do when it comes to translate this document. Okay, I get all those things are written while they're being translated. I have this in German and one other language in Korean here translated into Korean. Okay. And what I want to show next and after this, I'll take questions is you'll see here we we have a one of our customers and Jose, actually the city where I live, where they have worked to come up with a glossary, they have actually made it open source on their on their data portal. And they've defined, hey, when we translate from English to Spanish when it comes to illegal dumping or potholes, this is how we prefer it to be translated. And this is simply you can download. This is simply a CSV file or tab separated values. What I did is I took that file and I want to show how easy it is to create a glossary without any technical work. All we do is we just say we want to add a resource and we can name this, you know, blockchain number three. And I just say this is going from English to Spanish. You know, directionally I select the file from my local machine, give it a place to land, and I tell it my sources English output of Spanish. That's it. Just point and click. I know I did that very quickly. I'll leave this up on the screen for a second before I click ADD. But that's how easy it is to it's it's simply a pairing of two columns. What is the source, What's the output? That's how easy glossary is. And then we come here, click add. And once that's processed, the last step in order to make it available to your users is you simply need to assign it to a portal. And in this portal here we're using the basic one. We going to click okay and assign and that's it. I'm going to show you what that looks like for an end user to use the glossary. And also, how does that actually affect the output in terms of making it more accurate for our translations? So you notice here there's words around illegal dumping, potholes, debris and graffiti. What I did is I created this document that's just an ad lib. It's basically some made up sentences that contain a lot of the words from that particular glossary. And you'll notice that I bolded these in order to highlight them in the output, as well as to show that the formatting is retained. So when we see Santa Clara County translated, it should come back with this blue highlight on it as well as SJC. This is all capital and DOT. This is essentially we'll be recognized as acronyms. Okay, So to come back here, refresh this page, they should be active already. And what I'm going to do is import directly from drive that source document that I just showed there. Okay. And what I'm going to do is I'm just going to translate this without without any glossary. I'm just going to say the way it is, like the base model we call it. I want it from English to Spanish go. And while that's while that's translating, I'm going to select the same file and I'm going to say I want a new translation of English, a Spanish, but instead of a plain vanilla translation, I want this to use a glossary. In this case, I've just loaded up a new three. Okay, that's the one that I want and I'm going to tell it to translate. And I've already I've executed this earlier, as you can see, But I'm going to see these top two. These are the ones that I just did that I just executed a few seconds ago. I should be able to see that. Okay. It doesn't have the date time, but these are the two at the top. So if I look at this, this is what's the output without the glossary. Okay. And if I want to download this, I can download this as a word file or I can export this to directly back to drive and I can select do I want it as a docx word file or do I want it as a google doc? Both can be edited within Google Drive, but if your stakeholders or folks you're working with want it as a file that they can send on their desktop, you can also export it directly into a Microsoft Word file every export of those. So I wanted to show the screen to show you the output here. But what it looks like is from this source, we translate it into Spanish. You'll notice here my my notation here of no glossary. So without glossary, this is how it translates that source document. Okay, a couple of things to call out. When it comes to potholes, it uses the word botches, which is is actually a reasonable translation for what a pothole is. It's one interpretation of how pothole could be translated. And you'll see straight see here as the airport is is simply left alone because of system. It doesn't know how to expand see to to the system a word that is an all caps like that's an acronym. Right. So leave it alone and then you'll see here it kept the highlights for the county of Santa Clara as well as a kept here for D.O.T., Department of Transportation, as well as botches for pothole. Can for English speakers. We understand what deal we could understand what DOT means Department of Transportation, but it may not work the same way when it comes to a Spanish speaker. If you tell a Spanish speaker, go to the dot or go to the DMV. Well. DMVs Maybe they know, but like, we shouldn't have to rely on our customers understanding what these acronyms mean in order for them to be to have a useful translation. So you'll notice that in this in this glossary, there are the next slide. For example, there is the definition of SJC, and I clean this up a little bit just because of the, the accents on the, the Unicode. What the customer has done is when you see SJC and you translate it to Spanish, it's like actually expand that so that a Spanish speaker, when they read that, they can read it instead of seeing us, just see that it oh, that's the airport that the international airport of Manila, San Jose, SJC. And same thing with D.O.T.. When you see CDOT expand that to the Department of Transportation in Spanish so they don't have to actually figure out or guess what those acronyms mean, there's argument to be made for having that expanded in English, but that's a separate topic. So with the source, we now have it into Spanish. And if you notice, sorry, I can't put it side by side because of how I'm crossing the screen, but notice here the word botches as well as SJC and DOT Okay, With the glossary applied, we now have instead of the word buttons, we now have the word audios. And you I would translate it literally as a hole in the road. And instead of SJC, it now marks it as this airport, international airport at San Jose. Okay. And because they defined it in the glossary to include the acronym after the word, you'll see here, right here, this SJC that's included because that's how the customer wanted it. And what happens here is it leads to consistency in voice. So if you go to San Jose's 311 system, they're using a combination of Google with their with their customer system, customer experiences. And when you submit a request for a pothole, the word that they use on their site is actually the same as this voice. And look at you. And that leads to a consistent experience for users when they're referring to it, when they interact with their particular government as well. As you'll see here, the Department of Transportation was expanded. So again, going from without a glossary, it just says D.O.T., which could be interpreted. But if you don't know what it means, this is a much more useful particular translation here for you. Okay. And with that being said, I think it's really powerful for us to be able to do this in like, for example, if I go back to translate and say maybe today we're doing English or Spanish, but with the capability of being able to do it cost effectively, maybe we can now expand and say, Hey, I'm going to go, I want to do this. But we're now being asked for this by our Asian Pacific stakeholders. I want to go from here to Chinese to Chinese, Indonesian, Japanese, Korean, Tagalog and Thai without glossaries because we haven't uploaded them. Go. All I do is click translate one click. Okay. And you notice it's taking it into 64 languages here, just this same little blurb here, and we're going to get them back before we before we finish this call, if I were to have said this out to a vendor because it's so short, it might have been reasonably quick. But again, keep in mind $75 minimum per per document. So we now just did. That's what it cost us, $450. To translate that, a little blurb versus I just did it here for almost nothing and we got it back immediately. If I had a human review this, I could ship this outbound to our communications department for posting on our social media within 5 to 15 minutes if this was an emergency response scenario and maybe instead of talking about potholes, this could be, hey, the fire line is moving towards this community. You need to evacuate right now. And I need this in six different languages. Send it out to them. Get the folks moving, start, start had milk. And I can do that now and I could have a human review it. I can have this in Tagalog. I could have this in Vietnamese and and have them move within within a few minutes.

### Quiz - [Quiz: Enterprise Translation Hub](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/quizzes/469839)

#### Quiz 1.

> [!important]
> **How does Enterprise Translation Hub reduce the effort it would typically take to translate documents?**
>
> * [ ] Translation Hub is 2x faster than other translation services.
> * [ ] Formatting is preserved, so you don't have to reformat documents.
> * [ ] Language selections are pre populated.
> * [ ] Documents are pre-translated upon import, so translation takes less time.

#### Quiz 2.

> [!important]
> **In Enterprise Translation Hub, what are templates used for?**
>
> * [ ] Pre-defining commonly translated language presets.
> * [ ] Organizing documents
> * [ ] Organizing projects
> * [ ] Formatting documents

#### Quiz 3.

> [!important]
> **In the Public Sector, there are often terms and words that need to be translated consistently in a specific way to preserve their meaning. What tool can you use in the Enterprise Translation Hub to achieve this?**
>
> * [ ] Standard Term Database
> * [ ] The glossary
> * [ ] Translation library
> * [ ] The index

#### Quiz 4.

> [!important]
> **Enterprise Translation Hub enables non-technical users to:**
>
> * [ ] Upload documents and translate those documents to a language of their choice.
> * [ ] Discover translation resources and services.
> * [ ] Replace human translation with machine translation.
> * [ ] Customize the formatting of documents.

### Lab - [Translate Text with the Cloud Translation API](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/labs/469840)

Cloud Translation translates an arbitrary string into any supported language. In this hands-on lab, you use the Cloud Translation API to detect the language of a text, and then translate the text.

* [ ] [Translate Text with the Cloud Translation API](../labs/Translate-Text-with-the-Cloud-Translation-API.md)

## Course Resources

Student PDF links to all modules

### Document - [Student slides](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/517/documents/469841)

## Your Next Steps

### Badge - [Course Badge](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google)
