---
id: 1108
name: 'Intro to CCAI and CCAI Engagement Framework'
type: Course
url: https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1108
date_published: 2024-07-10
topics:
  - Machine Learning
  - Artificial Intelligence
  - Contact Center AI
---

# [Intro to CCAI and CCAI Engagement Framework](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1108)

**Description:**

This is a introductory course to all solutions in the Contact Center AI (CCAI) portfolio and the generative AI features that are poised to transform them. The course also explores the CCAI go-to-market and engagement model, the business case around CCAI, and the use cases and user personas addressed by the solution.

**Objectives:**

* Understand what CCAI is and how the engagement with Google works.

## Contact Centers of the past

This module explores the legacy challenges with contact center transformation and the opportunities offered by the latest technology to address the market demand for more seamless, high-quality, self-service experiences.

### Video - [Introduction](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1108/video/492765)

* [YouTube: Introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2LP-haUNFJQ)



### Video - [Contact Centers of the past](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1108/video/492766)

* [YouTube: Contact Centers of the past](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vW9mZe-1EE)

We first must start with learning about the contact centers of the past. The 2 objectives for this section are: 1. To understand the legacy challenges for Contact Centers. and 2. To understand the opportunity that lies ahead with Contact Center transformation. Customer Service is a pressured market, looking for a new paradigm to overcome structural challenges. Contact Centers are normally viewed as a cost center. Any effort devoted to digital transformation has struggled to keep pace with the rapid innovation and demand for customer support services which has seen a steep increase over the last 5-10 years. The customer experience is often handled by legacy systems stitched with incremental technologies that are not always optimally interoperable. This ends up creating bad experiences for customers. The main challenges that customers face when dealing with legacy contact centers systems include: the lack of a unified experience: customers nowadays expect to connect with companies throughout multiple online channels and with a consistent experience. Another challenge is Rigid decision trees: Traditional Contact Center technology suffers from a lack of flexibility from the predesigned paths. It provides experiences that are far from human like and end up creating frustration for the user. Increased expectations are another obstacle: Users prefer the convenience and speed of on-demand services and answers to their questions. And there’s also the issue of Dropped, repeat and unresolved calls. These lead to customers facing the frustration of repeatedly explaining the same issue to multiple support agents. These challenges painted a clear picture: the customer-centric Contact Center was a distant dream for many organizations. Infrastructure challenges underline all this complexity. The most common include: Legacy systems that are often neglected, rarely upgraded, and difficult to integrate. A business logic that sits on top of these systems which is convoluted and challenging to maintain. Stringent infrastructure and security protocols that often add friction to transformation, given the fact that Contact centers house a large amount of personal identifiable data. Lastly, the poor interoperability between the patchwork of systems often stitched together makes it difficult to to retrieve and analyze data effectively. Retrieving a simple piece of information can take valuable minutes or hours, frustrating agents and customers alike. These invisible walls – legacy systems, tangled business logic, weak security, and data fragmentation – are the silent enemies of efficiency, agility, and customer experience. Human Agent Challenges are often overlooked, but they play a critical role in the current status quo of many contact centers. Contact center Agents often face a number of challenges that frustrate their employee experience and are at the root of the high attrition rate in contact centers. The first of these challenges is Productivity: Agents have to manage Multiple (slow) systems and bounce between browser tabs to accurately manage customer calls. There’s also the issue of Limited flexibility: Agents are limited in what they can say and do, and are almost always measured on this. Accurate context is another problem: The majority of agents go into calls without a lot of information about the customer case So they must start from scratch when collecting their information. And a final challenge is Data collection and documentation: Agents often have to update multiple systems and summarize their calls in a timely manner. Agents are the heart of a Contact Center, but their tools often limit their ability to efficiently handle customer cases. By providing accurate context and streamlined data collection we have the ability to transform their experience and turn them into empowered customer champions. Lastly, it is important to mention AI challenges. AI as a concept and technology is not new in the contact center, but few have been able to harness its full potential in the right way. The Chatbot revolution started around 2016, when many businesses started to heavily invest in chatbots. The first challenge that they encountered were the underwhelming results, following overhyped promises on performance. That’s what we often refer to as “Chatbot hangover”. Second was maturity. Given the novelty of the technology, many businesses were missing the required expertise on what it takes to build a highly catered conversational experience. The third challenge was the lack of availability or engagement of the right set of resources. Building bots was not a trivial task, and required a deep expertise in machine learning, linguistics and data science. However, leaders still cite focusing on customer service as a top priority. Given all the challenges that Contact centers faced in the past, and the critical role that Contact Centers play in the future of enterprise; focusing on customer service by improving the Customer Experience is a key priority for many businesses today. Large investments are being deployed to craft customer experiences that meet the high-quality standards that customers expect nowadays. This renewed focus on customer service is expected to bring consistent operational improvement and top line revenue growth for enterprises. According to a study from Gartner, 63% of service and support leaders put the improvement of current self-service experiences as front and center in their operational strategies. 58% already have plans in place to pivot their customer service function to improve its contribution to top-line revenue growth through new digital transformation. Google Cloud can help transform the enterprises customer service through it extensive Contact Center AI Offering (C-C-A-I) that is capable of: providing an interaction experience that it is close to human. Far from the robotic, pre-recorded voices that often support the customer service experience of many call centers. adaptive routing to reduce the need for human escalation, as compared to the previous rules-based approach. empowering human agents with the right information to resolve customer queries as fast and efficiently as possible. Auto-tuned, AI driven speech models that do not require regular tuning. And Google Cloud can also ensure an omni channel experience through the integration to the billing and operations systems in the same platform. To summarize, investing in a new, AI powered customer service experience can potentially deliver 4 key benefits: Boost agent & employee productivity. Improve self-service & deflection rates. Modernize chat & voice infrastructure. And enhance insights & customer predictions. Good conversational experiences lead to better customer experiences which in turn greatly enhance the ability of enterprises to thrive both financially and operationally.

### Quiz - [Contact Centers of the Past Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1108/quizzes/492767)

## Contact Centers of the future

This module explores how AI is currently transforming the contact center space and how CCAI fits in the Vertex AI portfolio of solutions offered by Google Cloud.

### Video - [Contact Centers of the future](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1108/video/492768)

* [YouTube: Contact Centers of the future](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=loSaps5UjlQ)

So, how can Google Could enterprises “enter the future”? In order to answer this question, it is important to: understand how AI is disrupting the customer service industry today understand what Vertex AI is, And understand how CCAI or Contact Center AI fits in the Vertex AI portfolio. A new era has begun with “Industrial Revolution 4-point-0” driven by Artificial Intelligence. This revolution is considered as impactful as the three preceding it, starting from the steam power revolution in 1784, followed by the electricity revolution in 1870 and the first information technology revolution in 1969. This new era is defined by intuitive human-to-computer interactions powered by a new field of Artificial Intelligence called Generative AI. Generative AI is capable of understanding and generating language through modalities such as text, audio, video and images. As AI transforms contact centers, it is necessary to have a framework that breaks down user self-service functionalities into 3 categories: Informational, Transactional, and Generative. Informational functionalities serve use cases where the user wants to know something. Transactional functionalities serve use cases where the user wants to do something. And Generative functionalities serve use cases both informational and transactional. Keep in mind that these are not mutually exclusive. One experience can be informational, transactional, and generative. All three work together to transform the contact center experience. For instance, a user calls in to check their bill balance (informational), then asks to pay their bill (transactional), with generative capabilities used for conversational fallout. To the user this is one conversation but in order to develop and deploy to production we must break it down into these categories. And now we can implement generative Technologies into both informational transactional use cases to create new wonderful experiences. Behind the scenes, the platform that powers all the Generative AI functionalities in CCAI is Vertex AI. This is a collection of APIs & tools that supports all the needs of the new Generative AI-centric enterprise. Starting at the bottom of the stack, we have Google’s world class AI optimized infrastructure, fully integrated with Google Data Cloud. On top of it sits the Vertex AI Model garden, a one stop shop to find first-party, open source and third-party large language models. The AI Platform leverages the resources from the Model Garden to provide end-to-end tooling to build, deploy and monitor Gen AI models and pipelines. Vertex AI Search and Conversation is the interface that developers can then lean on to access the AI platform resources to quickly and easily infuse chat, Gen AI, and search into their Enterprise applications. AI Solutions, such as Contact Center AI leverage the Vertex AI Search and Conversation to deploy chatbots and voicebots at scale. These capabilities are both accessible as out-of-the-box solutions in Dialogflow, as well as through the Vertex AI Search and Conversation console.

### Quiz - [Contact Centers of the Future Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1108/quizzes/492769)

## CCAI building blocks

This module deals with the foundational blocks of the CCAI solution and how each block empowers best-in-class customer service.

### Video - [Conversational AI building blocks](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1108/video/492770)

* [YouTube: Conversational AI building blocks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VoZLzS3s7ww)

Now that you know a little more about Vertex AI and CCAI, let’s dive into the building blocks of CCAI. Our objective here will be to understand the foundational blocks of the CCAI solution and how each block empowers best in class customer service. CCAI is a solution enabled by one conversational core. The conversational core is the brain of CCAI that drives value for all stakeholders of the contact center. The conversational core supports three pillars: Virtual Agents, Agent Assist, and Insights. Let's delve into each one: First is Virtual Agent: This is Dialogflow: The Conversational Cornerstone. Think of Dialogflow as the foundation on which you build your virtual agent. It’s like a parent container that encompasses your entire chat bot, voice bot, or conversational application. Dialogflow is the brain of your virtual agent, powered by natural language understanding (or N-L-U) that allows it to comprehend and respond to your customers' questions and requests. Virtual Agents offer three benefits: it delivers an on brand, omni-channel customer self-service experience for voice and chat by getting answers to questions or completing transactions conversationally, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Customers get fast responses to their queries based on on Natural Language Processing, which can parse topics based on the conversation, identify the customer intent and automatically respond accurately. And finally, when a human agent is needed, the system enables a seamless transition by providing them with conversation context, transcripts, and real-time guidance for a smooth takeover. Next is Agent Assist: The Empowering Coach Agent Assist actively supports human agents during live conversations. It analyzes customer intent and provides real-time suggestions and relevant information to the agent, aiding in delivering more efficient and effective customer interactions. The Dialogflow NLU engine also fuels Agent Assist, adding an extra layer of intelligence. In scenarios where live agent support remains necessary, Agent Assist facilitates a seamless transition from virtual to human interaction. When a call cannot be resolved by the virtual agent, it is routed to a human agent. This continuous support approach empowers human agents with transcripts of the customer-virtual agent conversation, allowing them to continue the interaction without repeating questions. Additionally, virtual agents provide real-time assistance to human agents. This includes delivering relevant information, guiding workflows, and offering turn-by-turn suggestions. This ensures a consistent customer experience. Lastly, by rating these smart replies for usefulness, live agents contribute to the model's learning, improving the accuracy of assistance over time. The final pillar is Insights: The Knowledge Vault CCAI Insights acts as a powerful analytics engine for Contact Centers. It processes and analyzes historical conversation data, providing you with actionable insights. This enables you to identify optimization opportunities, improve operational efficiency, and enhance the overall customer experience. Insights can greatly empower a business by providing a live dashboard with stats such as the number of calls received, the percentage split among intents, key compliance phrases, and more. These metrics, enabled by Natural Language Processing, help businesses understand their customers better. Insights also assist businesses with various compliance requirements by identifying key phrases to help operations and QA stay on top of the enterprises most important obligations. Lastly, Insights provides intelligence to businesses by surfacing sentiment and language data on how live agents interact with customers. So, there you have it – Google Contact Center AI, a three-pillar powerhouse designed to elevate your Contact Center to new heights. Remember, it's not just about replacing humans; it's about empowering them with AI to create a seamless, efficient, and ultimately, customer-centric journey. Let’s now review some use cases that these technologies can help unlock. In this example, a clinic wants to implement a conversational interface to allow clinicians seamless access to patient information. Examples of possible use cases include: A virtual nurse to help doctors with summarizations of medical records. An AI assistant to review patient scans, x-rays, and charts to help determine best treatment options. And a business who wants to create an internal tool for searching and retrieving insurance codes based on patient symptoms. Medical imaging can be slow, and analyzing documents or images can often take doctors and nurses away from valuable time with patients. Having the assistance of an AI powered Virtual Agent can speed up medical imaging classification, helping healthcare professionals spend more time delivering great care, and improving patient outcomes. Retail is another industry primed for disruption with AI in customer services. In this example, a fast food chain wants to streamline drive-thru ordering for a frictionless customer experience. Examples of use cases include: A business that wants to create a chatbot to answer Product FAQs. A business like a large restaurant chain who wants to create a multi-modal food order taking experience. A business is unsure why customers are calling in and wants to identify conversational topics ands areas to focus self-service efforts. Lastly, AI powered Virtual Agents are poised to transform customer service in the Telecommunications industry. Some telco virtual agents use case examples are: A business looking to build a voice virtual assistant for their Contact Center operations spanning across multiple domains like Billing, Payments, Troubleshooting, and Accounts. A business that wants real-time suggestions for call center agents to decrease average handle time. And a business that requires an omni-channel solution to categorize and summarize their calls. These use cases provide clear benefits to both the enterprise and the customers.

### Quiz - [CCAI Building Blocks Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1108/quizzes/492771)

## GenAI and Virtual Agents

This module introduces the main Gen AI capabilities within the Virtual Agent solution and how to best leverage them to improve the self-service customer experience.

### Video - [GenAI and Conversational Agents](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1108/video/492772)

* [YouTube: GenAI and Conversational Agents](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tTsxLiIqbEk)

Now you understand the building blocks of CCAI, let’s dive into some of the generative functionalities within the Virtual Agent solution. The objective of this module is to understand the core generative AI capabilities specific to the Virtual Agent and how to best leverage them. New Gen AI capabilities available in Agent Assist and Insights will be covered in their respective courses. As previously mentioned, GenAI is the new way of building virtual assistants and bots. These are the three main generative features recently launched in Virtual Agents: Generative AI Agents, Generative Responses (inclusive of Generators and Generative Fallback) and Generative Playbooks. Generative AI Agents represent a significant leap forward in conversational AI, offering a paradigm shift in how we interact with machines. By harnessing the power of L-L-Ms, these AI agents can generate human-like responses, personalize conversations, and adapt to new situations, making interactions more natural by utilizing a provided knowledge base. Generative Responses can seamlessly integrate with existing conversational AI flows, providing fallback options for handling specific fulfillments. When no matching intent or rule is found, Generative AI Agents can be triggered using Generators or no-match events. Simple prompts in natural language can be provided to guide the Generative AI Agent in generating appropriate responses and actions. And finally, Generative Playbooks enable users to specify tasks in natural language, just like they would with a human agent. This intuitive approach eliminates the need for complex programming or technical expertise, making conversational AI development more accessible. Generative Playbooks can be used to create a wide range of conversational experiences, from simple FAQ bots to complex customer support interactions. Let’s explore each of these features. Generative AI agents are essentially an FAQ answering service grounded in your documentation that can parse and comprehend your public or private content. This could be a website or a document in any format such as PDFs, docs, and databases. So, when should you use it? When you need to fill specific areas of a conversation with information that can be directly pulled from a knowledge base, this feature is valuable. It is also useful when you want to reduce the degree of negative impact or "fallout" in situations where there are no exact matches to a customer's query. You might also be asking where you should use it? Consider using this feature within product FAQs, troubleshooting guides, or conversational flows where providing supplemental knowledge can enrich the interaction. And finally, there’s the question of how to configure it? To set up this feature, you need to connect the agent to the relevant data store. Generative fallback is used to generate agent responses when end-user input does not match an intent. Use generative fallback when you need to handle or improve parts of the conversation that don't require exact, pre-written answers (like in no-match event handlers in specific flows, pages, or when collecting data). Situations where generative fallback can be helpful include: The ID collection processes. When gathering credit card information. After sending an SMS. Or in conversational flows that ask open-ended questions like "Anything else?" You can set up generative fallback by creating a text prompt. This prompt is like an instruction for the Large Language Model (LLM), telling it how to respond to user input. Generators are GenAI prompts you can use for any fulfillment in Dialogflow. This can generate virtual agent responses specifically on a condition or triggering an event. Generators are extremely powerful because they allow you to configure GenAI as specifically as possible. Use it when you need the conversational flow to fulfill a specific action (like summarization, parameter extraction, and data transformations). You can use it in Routes, event-handlers, parameters and more. And it can be configured through a text prompt that instructs the LLM how to fulfill a specific action. Generative playbooks are intended to be used for entire generative tasks, whether that be a portion of a flow or the entire flow. Rather than defining each flow, page, intent, and transition, you provide instructions in natural language with some examples of how to handle customer requests. Make use of it when you need to build entire flows or portion of a flow to retrieve information or submit transactions. Use it in flows where the order of operations is less stringent, allowing for natural conversation to occur to exchange parameters with the user. And configure it by configuring steps and examples for your Playbooks. When exploring these virtual agent capabilities powered by Generative AI, there are key common strengths and synergies to note. Firstly, both Generative AI Agents and Generative Fallback excel in handling scenarios where no intent was matched by the user's input. This is achieved without the need to explicitly model these no-match scenarios, providing a seamless and adaptable user experience. Secondly, across all four capabilities, a prominent strength is the use of Large Language Models (LLMs). This allows for more fluid and natural conversational experiences for the user, often helping to resolve their needs and prevent the necessity of an escalation to a live agent. Lastly, both Generators and Playbooks offer the distinct advantage of handling transactional use cases. These are situations that involve triggering a specific action or engaging in a back-and-forth dialogue with the user to achieve a desired outcome.

### Quiz - [GenAI and Virtual Agents Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1108/quizzes/492773)

## The business case around CCAI

This module explores the key metrics to measure the effectiveness of a CCAI solution and address the contact center priorities.

### Video - [The business case around Conversational AI](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1108/video/492774)

* [YouTube: The business case around Conversational AI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qb0oyoCAC2E)

Now let’s learn about the business case around CCAI. When defining the business case for a contact center, it’s good to look at customer service priorities through 4 lenses: The first is Scale. Are interaction volume and average handle time primary concerns? Are you looking to improve agent C-SAT (shorthand for customer satisfaction) or occupancy rate? Next is cost. Are costs per customer interaction, back office expenses, or overall customer volume interaction costs driving decision-making? Also of importance is experience. Are improving your customer satisfaction rates, reducing customer churn, and optimizing interaction channels your primary concerns? Finally, there’s Growth. Are increasing revenue with upsell and cross-opportunities as well as decreasing your customer acquisition costs important? Once the priorities are identified, there are many metrics used in the contact center space to measure their degree of achievement. Ideally the goal of any use case is to decrease cost while increasing Efficiency, Revenue and overall customer experience. So of these numerous metrics, the ones that are most commonly monitored are: volumes, average handle time, and containment rate. Let’s dive deeper into each of these. Volume is the number of contacts coming into a specific channel (either chat or voice) for a specific interaction, function, intent or agent group. Average handle-time is how long it takes a live agent to complete a customer interaction. Containment can be defined as the percentage of users that are able to successfully complete a self-service function without the need for human intervention. Most Contact Centers will have immediate containment numbers. This is not always 100% accurate for determining if a user was successful because users can and do call back when their issue is not resolved. Because of this, most contact centers evaluate 48 hours or 72 hours containment for business priorities. 48 hours or 72 hours containment is a better indicator of a user success because it tracks if the user has contacted the company more than once for the same intent within a certain timeframe. Most enterprises will have some layer of business logic that filters out certain types of users. So when speaking about Volumes, it is crucial that you evaluate not just Total volume but also analyze addressable volume. Addressable volume is the total of contacts AFTER screening out for various business rules. The enterprise may also already have an incumbent solution containing calls (also known as baseline). This would also subtract volumes for the new solution. So in order to have a clear understanding of the potential impact of your new solution, you must look at Total Volume, Addressable Volume, and Baseline Contained to derive a realistic estimate of the total number of calls going to self service. Total Volume is the top of the funnel traffic per function. Addressable Volume is after business logic screening. Baseline Contained are the calls already going to self-service. And Potential impact is the your final volume number. Average handle time is another key metric used to evaluate the performance of a contact center. It measures how long it takes a live agent to complete a customer interaction. It is generally measured as as a percentage or total time in minutes, and calculated as the cumulative total time spent on calls or interactions divided by the number of calls or interactions. The longer Average Handle Time the more complex the interaction. Lastly, as previously mentioned, Containment can be defined as the percentage of customers that are able to successfully complete a self-service function without the need for human intervention. Let’s look at this simple example: Jeff asks to move his billing date from the 5th to the 12th. The Virtual Agent intelligently processes Jeff’s request by updating Jeff’s billing date and his Ads profile. With the Billing date moved, Jeff concludes the call. Jeff has never interacted with a human agent, so Jeff’s contacts are contained. The reason why containment is often deemed to be the most critical metric in a business leveraging CCAI is because its benefits touch every point in the customer and the human agent journey. Containing more calls allows agents to focus on the most complex use cases. This includes the ones with potential for up and cross selling which increases the A-R-P-U (average revenue per user). A higher containment usually indicates a good customer experience with low churn and abandonment. Where customers are happy, agents are happy and their rate of attrition tends to decrease by an estimated 5-7%. It’s a win-win situation for everyone, which is why CCAI is often positioned as the end-to-end solution for all the Contact Centers needs. A tactical way to determine the opportunity for CCAI is to create a small business case leveraging the Contact center call volume, average handle time, and average hourly rate. With these three numbers you can create a simple equation to determine the dollar value of the opportunity. For example, a customer gets 1000 contacts a day about their product FAQs. The average handle time is 3 minutes and the live agents cost an average of 21 dollars and 95 cents an hour. This is over 1000 dollars of cost per day on answering product FAQs. Now let’s imagine that this company also provides custom designs and manufacturing for flooring components. In this case they have 100 contacts per day, each call takes 45 minutes and the average live agent cost is 21 dollars and 95 cents per hour. The net cost is over 1600 dollars per day in opportunity. So the custom jobs customer service is on average more expensive than the Product FAQ call center experience, despite having one tenth of the incoming volumes. What this tells us is that volume alone is not a great indicator of opportunity size. As shown in this example, it would be more valuable to focus on custom jobs than product FAQs.

### Quiz - [The Business Case Around CCAI Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1108/quizzes/492775)

## Use cases and user personas

This module explores how to leverage design thinking to create use cases and user personas to best target development efforts, and how to prioritize work using the delta use case canvas approach.

### Video - [Use cases and user personas](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1108/video/492776)

* [YouTube: Use cases and user personas](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SKw7hh99UxE)

When assessing the opportunity to embrace CCAI as a solution for a business, it is important to think about use cases and user personas, to best target development efforts. Let’s dive into these in the next section. The objectives of this section are to understand: what is a use case, how to best leverage design thinking to create user-centered solutions, and how to prioritize work using the delta use case canvas approach. Fist, what is a use case? A use case is a description of how technology can be leveraged to address a specific user need. Use cases typically include the following information: A description of the goal that the user is trying to achieve. A list of the steps that the user takes to achieve the goal. A description of the system's responses to the user's actions. Any preconditions or assumptions that must be met in order for the use case to be successful. And any postconditions that must be met after the use case has been completed. A user persona is a fictional character that represents a typical user of a product or service underpinning a use case. Personas are generally based on real-world research and are used to help businesses understand their target audience in order to create products and services that are more likely to meet their needs. Displaying empathy for a user is a great way to create products and services that are successful in the market as more user-friendly and enjoyable to use. Personas can help you to make better decisions about your products and services. For example, you can use personas to test new features or decide how to best cater a marketing message. To properly leverage your user persona when designing conversational applications, you need to consider the following points: Understand the brand by interviewing every possible stakeholder. Different stakeholders will have different perspectives on the brand. Then review the marketing material, the company website, commercials, and anything else open to the public. If possible, visit the contact center as well. Then understand the customer. What are their needs? Their customer journey? Their demographic and degree of engagement? Once you understand the customer you can start to understand the task or the intent of the user (what are users mostly reaching out the contact center about?). Then create characters that represent the users and stakeholders across the contact centers engagement journey For example, Contact Centers Managers, Call Center Agents, Gen X Customers and Legacy Customers. All this information can be used to build a persona for your virtual agent that best caters to your “real” user personas. In building a Virtual agent persona, the questions you want to answer are as follows: What’s the name of your Virtual Agent? Is there any meaning behind this name? What’s the age or age range of this Virtual Agent? This informs the agent’s tone (like energetic or sophisticated.) What’s the gender of your Virtual Agent? Knowing the gender of the Virtual Agent helps create the custom voice. Does the service that your Virtual Agent provides require any special training? What role will this Virtual Agent play in your organization, (like general customer representative or technical support?) Note that the goal of creating a profile for the Virtual Agent is not to trick the user into thinking they’re talking to a human being. The profile is there to serve as a guide to help conversation designers write dialog with a uniform communication style. Here is an example user persona for Betty, a early-to-mid-thirties female. She is: Approachable, happy and friendly, Trustworthy, Reliable and consistent, Provides convenience and low effort customer service, Patient without rushing the customer, And Straight forward with simple interactions. This role is best catered as a general customer service representative that can route customers to other service branches.

### Quiz - [Use Cases and User Personas Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/1108/quizzes/492777)

## Your Next Steps

### Badge - [Course Badge](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google)
