---
id: 958
name: 'Manage Functions and Reporting with CCAIP'
type: Course
url: https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958
date_published: 2024-09-19
topics:
  - Functions
  - Analytics
---

# [Manage Functions and Reporting with CCAIP](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958)

**Description:**

Manage Functions and Reporting with CCAI Platform provides end-users with essential training about the core features, functionality, monitoring, reporting, and configuration information that is most relevant to the role. This course is most appropriate for those at the managerial level of the contact center who are tasked with monitoring the effectiveness, efficiency, and KPI attainment for all consumer interactions. While this program will review some aspects of settings and configuration options, the major focus is on reporting functionality in CCAI Platform.

**Objectives:**

* Monitor and analyze the performance of your assigned team(s).
* Shift contact center resources to fully meet the demands of customers, seasonality, and staffing dependencies.
* Monitor progress and coach agents through various agent management challenges.
* Ensure agents are following the contact center’s policies.
* Configure the contact center to support onboarding agents on your teams and challenge those who are seasoned veterans.
* Analyze if a contact center is meeting SLA metrics, overarching performance expectations, and KPIs.

## Getting Started with CCAIP

In this module, you learn the basic navigation of the platform, how to login, and what permissions you have as the manager. You also learn the reporting methodology for CCAIP. 


### Document - [Getting Started with CCAIP](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/508985)

### Video - [Navigating the Platform](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/video/508986)

* [YouTube: Navigating the Platform](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cqp49F_Smdc)

… For the first module in this course let's review some basic navigation tips for the portal. Keep in mind that we will do a deep dive on all of these of the platform in subsequent modules. And it's important to note that different managers may have different permissions according to the roles set by the platform admins. Depending on your contact center's channels the view of the platform may also vary. After setting up your account and logging in you will be greeted with this dashboard view. At a quick glance you can see how many open cases there are and how many agents are in calls and chats. You can navigate to additional live dashboards by either clicking on these color tiles or using the drop down menu at the top … If we look at the drop down menu we can visit the call chat virtual agent performance metrics or key reports pages all of which are live monitoring…Along the top of the page you can click into agents, queues, calls and chats which will also give you various views and actions for live monitoring. We'll get into the campaign section later in a different module. Finally the report section is for historical reporting here you can generate reports on agents channels queues and more. Under the settings section you will have limited permissions most likely. But there are still certain areas that will be available to you such as support center details, agent and team assignments, agent management, etcetera…You can modify your profile and account settings by clicking on the avatar or role title at the top of the page …

### Document - [Introduction to Data and Reporting in CCAIP](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/508987)

### Document - [Resources: Getting Started with CCAIP](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/508988)

### Quiz - [Getting Started with CCAIP Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/quizzes/508989)

## Managing Agents

This module discusses how to manage and monitor agents.  You learn how to adjust and create agent statuses and use the adapters. You learn how to leverage the live monitoring pages and build historical reports. 

### Video - [Users and Teams](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/video/508990)

* [YouTube: Users and Teams](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4-VtaDMkbWM)

In this demo you learn to manage users and teams, assign users and teams to queues, and recognize agent statuses…As a manager it's crucial to understand how to manage users and teams within CCAIP. That could mean adding users creating teams, assigning users to queues, and digging into agent statuses for agent adherence purposes. Let's start with the basics. Once you've logged into CCAI platform…please note that the view you see may differ depending on your contact center configuration. To manage users and teams within the platform, you'll navigate to settings…users and teams. Users can be added individually…or they can be imported in bulk. When a user is added they will need to activate their account via email link to complete the process. Please know that even if SSO is used to log in users are not created via SSO and need to be added via the portal manually or via bulk user management. Let's review how to add users individually. From this users and team area of the platform, click on add users. You will enter the information for the user…work email address first name last name …In the location section of this form this is used to dictate default language in the agent adapter And for more clarity and monitoring and reporting , locations also helped a support team with troubleshooting if needed. Your contact center admin can add more locations and their associated language…This external UCaaS user box is for our Microsoft Teams integration…You can select what role and permissions to assign to this user. If they are an agent and you would like them to be assigned chats, you can also choose their chat concurrency. This is helpful if you have a really senior agent who can handle a few chats at a time, or maybe when you are onboarding a new agent you want them to only handle one chat at a time …For bulk user management, We'll click on this tab…Please note this feature may not be available for all customers for more information contact support. Bulk user management allows you to use the contents of a CSV file to create or modify large numbers of users…simultaneously. This helps you to maintain essential user data grant edit permissions for individual user's property. Set user roles and activate or deactivate the user and maintain other properties…From the import users page you can use the template it provided to populate the information…for your new users or download a CSV file of all your current users that can be updated to modify existing users. For more information, please see bulk user management documentation. Let's go back to manage users and…Once you have added users to the platform, you can create teams. These teams could group users who are skilled for a particular function, users who are all in a certain location or maybe they all work a certain shift. These teams can be assigned to call and chat queues instead of the manager or admin always having assign users individually. As the contact center supervisor or manager you may need to delegate leadership responsibilities amongst the agents. There could be smaller groups of teams that have leads or managers. While you may have the overarching manager title these team leads would be identified as team managers and CCAIP…These team managers would have access to their team's queue assignments queue priority, monitoring agent data, live monitoring for channels associated with the queues the team is assigned to, and historical reports for their team members and the assigned queues for the team…The benefit of organizing platform users that way can facilitate easier assignment according to the needs of the consumers. Let's imagine a scenario in which there's a contact center with a hundred agents. While some of those agents are grouped by location and shift there is a group of six agents specifically assigned to a VIP queue and they are called the VIP team. This team is run by Victor so he has certain team manager permissions. He can adjust his team assignments to various VIP queues as he anticipates the needs of consumers. He can download reports on his team members to check for agent adherence. He can use live monitoring to barge and monitor calls that his team members are on and more. Now the general contact center manager can do this too but having Victor help monitor and lead his own team with the various actions and permissions helps keep things running smoothly. …Here's how to create a team. Scroll down to the teams section under the users and team settings area. And click add a team. You can give the team a name and then click add …When you're ready to add agents to that team you can click on the team…and you can add team managers…and you can add agents …and you can also click to remove agents from the team… Now we can navigate to a queue and practice assigning users and teams. You will click on settings, queue IVR. We'll go to our general support queue. And we can see that we have human agents assigned to this queue and two agents currently assigned. If we click edit human agent assignments, here we can add agents individually, or we can add by team. And then we can click save. When it comes to managing users and teams it's crucial to understand how agent statuses work within CCAIP…and how you can leverage them to maximize the efficiency of contact center. Agent statuses also refer to as aux codes serve as a means to track the time spent by agents on various tasks. Making them available for incoming calls or chats, and they play a significant role in workforce management reporting. Ultimately agent statuses help optimize resource utilization improve service levels and enhance the overall customer experience…You can use CCAIP's default statuses as well as create custom statuses to align with your various processes and needs. Please note those with the default manager permissions cannot create new statuses, but admins can. Managers can however update agent statuses which we'll discuss in another video. For now let's review the default statuses… Here we can see which statuses are default and which have been created by the system …Default statuses…cannot be edited in terms of what permissions are associated with that status. However, you can create a new status. Again this is for the admin permissions…And…Those customized statuses can be edited for their permission set. All statuses are available for all agents in your environment with the exception of special task which is only available to managers. With the exception of available and in chat in call, all default and custom statuses will be considered unavailable states. So calls and chats will not be routed to agents while in that status. The system maintains your last status when putting the computer to sleep or logging out in most cases the status you are in will be saved when you come back to your computer or log in. With the changing status feature it offers flexible configuration options based your administrative preferences, agents can change their status while they are not engaged in a call or chat. Additionally if permitted agents can choose which status to enter after ending their current call or chat. Administrative can restrict certain statuses to ensure agents select appropriate options…

### Document - [Resources: Users and Teams](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/508991)

### Video - [Adapters](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/video/508992)

* [YouTube: Adapters](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8BuF7aKZAiI)

…In this demo you learn to utilize the call and chat adapters. In order to have a comprehensive understanding of the call and ad adapters we highly recommend taking the agent facing training course and skills boost labeled handle consumer interactions with CCAIP… In this short video we will do a high level overview of the adapters relevant to your role as manager… To take calls and chats users must have agent permissions. As a manager you may take call or chat escalations from time to time So it's important to not only have those agent permissions but also understand how the adapter works from a high level. We will review the call and chat channels more in other modules so we won't discuss routing in this video This will just be a tutorial on how to use the adapters. Let's start with the call adapter. Here on the screen we are looking at the in call screen from a call that is already in progress. It's important to note that the call adapter options can vary depending on the contact center's configuration. This adapter will most likely be embedded in the contact center CRM… At the top of the adapter the agent is able to set their next status while in their current call. This feature can be turned on or off as decided by the admin. If it is enabled the agent would find this useful as they get closer to a break or meal time. If they notice their last call of the day and they're going to be off work soon they may say that they will be unavailable following this call interaction … Next to the status bar is the network button. Agents can select this to review their network info which will be helpful for troubleshooting … Well on the call the agent may decide to utilize the mute button in order to silence their end of the phone call. They will utilize hold to initiate transfers at a third parties or use the time to look up relevant information in the CRM company handbook website etcetera depending on the consumer concern… The transfer ad button is the most relevant to your role as manager. If a consumer requests an escalation or the agent follows the protocol that leads to an escalation they may need to transfer a call to you … To do this they will click the transfer add button. They can use the search bar or scroll according to preference They can choose to transfer to a queue… Or agent. Back on this main call screen let's say the agent wants to add a third party to the call They will click transfer ad outside … line … and then either copy, paste or type the phone number into the screen. To see more in-depth demos of these features please see the agent facing training course in Skills boost… Let's move further down the adapter in call screen. Smart actions may be available to agents Those actions could be to interact with a consumer and request screenshots payment and … more … With the hang up and callback button agents can quickly redial a consumer if they somehow got disconnected or had a bad network connection This is related to call recovery … Calls are sometimes unexpectedly ended or dropped perhaps an agent closes an active tab or browser in the middle of the call. There could be network issues on the agent's side for example wifi drops or bandwidth maxes out. And there could be network issues on the collar side. When an agent uses the hang up and call back button it is a quick way to reconnect with the consumer depending on a call being dropped or ended unexpectedly. Agents have a dial pad here that they can open up. Agents can click the details tab to see more information on the call such as the participants, phone number call ID queue etcetera. And the SMS tab would be relevant if the contact center has blended SMS enabled. The agent may choose to send messages to the caller while still on the call. This can be helpful if a consumer needs a specific link or code, etc. Let's switch over to the chat adapter. The chat adapter follows a lot of the same intuitive functionality as the call adapter. On the top bar the agents can select their status… This is the unavailable status You'll notice that the adapter changes colors along with the status that is selected. New chats will appear on the left side here where the mouse is moving Agents can also examine their stats and the chat adapter the same way they… on the call adapter. When they click on stats they can view their stats for the day including the chats answered average duration CSAT score and sentiment score. Again all of this is dependent on the configuration of the contact center… Back on the main screen agents can view shortcuts. This will take them to a different where they can view the different shortcuts they can type to save time when they're communicating with consumers…As manager you do have the ability to create chat shortcuts…Here is what it looks like when a new chat appears on the left side of that in chat menu. And now let's look at the flow of the in chat experience… As the new chat comes in the agent will click on it to begin the interaction. They can type their message in the space below or they can use chat shortcuts in order to communicate quickly… Here's an example of a chat shortcut for greeting … Agents can select different actions while in the chat such as transfer… They can look up queue or agent name in order to initiate that transfer… Let's review some final recommendations and best practices related to our first video on users and teams and our second video on the CCAIP call and chat adapters. As a manager be sure agents know the proper protocol for escalating interactions. For some contact centers that are on the smaller side agents will know the manager's name and know which way they should escalate and transfer and bring in their bosses. For larger contact centers it can be useful to create escalation queues where different agents or managers are able to take those types of call or chat escalations. So we just recommend that in general as part of the agent onboarding process that escalation protocol is a crucial part of their new learning. When it comes to agent and team assignments, leverage those assignments according to the needs of the contact center. Agents and teams can be reassigned in real time that's something we will review in an upcoming video, but all assignments are flexible and you as the manager can change those assignments as needed. The team feature is crucial for organizing agents teams can be utilized for grouping agents together in terms of location, skill set parts of the business and more. We highly recommend you continue learning about the call and chat adapters by exploring the agent facing training content and skills boost for further information.

### Document - [Resources: Handling Calls and Chats](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/508993)

### Document - [Activity: Add a User and Create a Team](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/508994)

### Video - [Agent Monitoring and Reporting](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/video/508995)

* [YouTube: Agent Monitoring and Reporting](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=28jZJOy4EoY)

…In this demo you learn to leverage the live monitoring pages for agents including the available actions…build historical reports based on agents and teams… and analyze data to monitor agent adherence …Live agent monitoring is easier than ever with CCAIP. The live agent monitoring page gives you a quick view of agent status information when agents last took a call or chat. There are summary metrics for the day, and this page can help you quickly spot if agents are having connectivity issues. The agents page of the portal can be found on the top menu bar. If you click on agents…This will give you a live view of all logged in agents in the platform. It can be searched and filtered to provide helpful live views of your agents…If you are assigned the manager role or the admin manager role you will be able to see data for all of the logged in agents on this page. If you are a team manager or data manager you will be able to see data which is specific to the teams you are a member or manager of on this page. The data on this page is refreshed about every ten to fifteen seconds depending on the connectivity of the machine you are using. There are filters available for this page so you can customize the screen. Once you select your filters click apply and you can bookmark or save the URL to return to the same view. There are many columns available on this page. We can view the agent ID…name email address, actions we can take We'll review that more momentarily…The agent's location, their status, which is where you as managers can change their status and we'll learn how to do that soon as well. Alapse time, on hold time. Next status, total calls, chats …Last end time last time offered , average response speed average handle time average wrap up current agent network quality, Mist calls due to network quality, concurrency limit connect failures, and total delta cast missed call…Please note this is dependent on whether your contact center configuration is utilizing DeltaCast routing. Let's break these data points down to informational…logistical, actionable and coachable categories…The informational data points will help you identify and organize your agents. Things like their ID number, name, email, and location. The logistical data points are ones that you can leverage to help with troubleshooting. These would be columns such as current agent network quality …Which will be here over on the right, missed calls due to network quality…and connect failures…The actionable …data points are related to the status and actions column…When it comes to agent status, monitoring and tracking this data point is crucial for ensuring optimal performance and resource utilization…The agent monitoring page displays the current status of all logged in agents and provides a quick overview of their availability for incoming calls or chats. Agents sometimes do not change their status or log out at the end of their work day This can impact agent adherence and call routing. The column next to the status titled elapsed time …will show how long an agent has been in that status. When an agent has exceeded a certain threshold in a status the color of the field will change. Thirty minutes will be yellow and sixty minutes will be red. Either of these colors should indicate something to investigate with your agents. With the manager role assigned to you you can change their status on this monitoring pay Please keep in mind that you cannot change the agent's status if they are in call in chat or offline. If the agent is offline they will not show up on this a train page but it's still worth mentioning. To change their status, you will hover over their status column and three dots will appear. You can see the options to change which status they're in…As managers there a couple of other things you should be aware of regarding agent status. If there are multiple unavailable statuses, agents may switch to them instead of returning to available. They might do this if their notes are taking longer than expected or they have tier three work to complete. They could also do queue dodging by making fast is between statuses to avoid calls being routed to them. The other actionable column is aptly titled actions. You as the manager can log out agents from this part of the page. After an agent is logged out they will be asked to log in upon their next visit to the agent adapter. You can also view agent details. This will share quite a bit of information about the agent including total calls, chats, assigned queues teams and more. If an agent is on a call or chat you can barge or monitor their interaction from this page as well. The option will be available when you click the three dots next to the agent's name or if you click on call details. For this agent we can go ahead and look at their agent details by clicking those three dots and we can log out the agent. And here is what it looks like if the agent is in a call, we can see all of the call detail information and the barge and monitor option. And we can also see that barge and monitor option directly from the three dots …Now this will only be available to those with certain permissions. For instance if you are a team manager you will only be able to barge and monitor the agents that are assigned to your team. If Barge is enabled in your contact center you can join or take over a conversation and support the agent at any time. With the monitor option you can listen in on live calls or view live chats without joining the session or interrupting the consumer and agent that are already in call or chat. The agent will not know the session is being monitored. And finally let's review the coachable columns. When you consider managing your agents and teams for better more efficient performance, these data points will serve as the foundation for those conversations. Whether coaching considering overall daily consumer needs or simply approving efficiency these metrics are essential. With the on hold time, This column here. You might catch segments of a call or chat interaction where the consumer has been on hold for quite some time. This would be an indicator that an agent may not know how to correctly handle that interaction… or the agent may not be following the time requirements to check in with a customer after a certain amount of time on hold. As the manager you may want to step in and offer support because this is a great coaching or QA opportunity. If we move over in the column we'll see the total calls column…This counts the number of completed inbound and outbound calls the agent has taken in the today time frame. It's important to note that this counts sessions, not interactions…Call sessions are attributed to the last agent who handled the session. Let's consider how this may impact CSAT scores. For you as a manager this point is important because you could have a consumer who experiences a different level support from a tier two and tier one agent in the same call. Knowing this information can provide you with the data point which could require some extra investigation…see who might need additional support or training following a less than ideal interaction…We recommend using downloadable reports for specific call interaction pounds per agent. When it comes to total call or total chat columns, these metrics are helpful for analyze which agents are assisting the contact center in meeting SLA and which might need additional training or coaching. The last end time column is a useful way to track when an agent completed their last session. If you see that it's been quite a while but they are still logged in and expected to be taking calls and chats. That might be worth investigating. Average response time handle time and wrap up are all coachable data points that you can look at on this page…These metrics can also provide good data about where there are training or documentation gaps If you find there is one type of call which seems to take an inordinately long amount of time. It could be that the agents don't have the information they need to handle that specific call type. These can also be good indicators of whether you need to staffing changes, for example if handle times are long or agents are unavailable longer, It could be an indicator for seasonal staffing changes or other adjustments. Let's move on to historical reports related to agents. The report builder in the reports tab allows you to generate standard reports for the metric that are important to your organization. Reports are generated based on three categories, agents in teams, calls and chats, and queues , campaigns and session data which are showing here in our platform. We'll talk about those later. When selected, each report type downloads as a separate CSV file. A folder containing all selected reports will be downloaded once the reports are generated. With so many data points at your fingertips this is a lot to take in. Let's talk about some guidelines when comparing data across CCAIP, real time and historical reporting features. We highly recommend reviewing the support documentation for more information…Permissions for the downloadable reports under agents in teams calls and chats queues and campaigns can be used to limit access to assigned teams only or assigned queues only. If a user is granted one of these permissions the corresponding reports are affected as follows …If the user selects all agents and downloads a report only data for agents on that user's team will be downloaded. If the user selects the select agents and teams option, only agents and teams that are on that user's teams will display as selectable options…Let's take a deep dive into a few reports…We're specifically focused on agent and team reporting right now …The first report we wanna talk about is the agent activity summary report. This includes calls and chats when enabled. This generates one CSV for all agents selected …It contains data showing cumulative duration in each status and number of interactions attempted and completed. This report can help answer questions like how long was agent a in each status last week? Contact Center managers can use the agent activity summary report to identify patterns in agent availability and plan staffing accordingly. By analyzing the time spent in each status managers can determine which tasks take the most time and allocate resources accordingly to optimize efficiency. When here in the report builder, As the manager you can…either identify you want the agent activity summary report for all agents or perhaps certain agents and teams, you can type those here and they will populate it …For the session type you'll choose if you are trying to get a report on calls or chats…And here is where you would select you want the agent activity summary report. And then for the last step you would choose the time filter you would like to see the data from …For the second type of report let's discuss the agent activity timeline report. This is a detailed timeline of every event either performed by an agent or performed by the system to an agent's account. CSV files contain data for all agents selected. This report could answer questions like what time exactly did agent a log in and then what time did they take their first call? What time was agent a offered a call via DeltaCast? Did agent A try to pick up their calls from eleven AM to twelve PM? Supervisor and managers can use the agent activity time report to review an agent's performance and identify areas for improvement. By analyzing an agent's status changes and activities, managers can determine they are following best practices, adhering to company policies and providing excellent customer service. The agent activity timeline report can also be used as a training tool for new agents. By reviewing the activities of top performing agents new hires can learn from their colleagues best practices and apply them to their own work. In summary, Tracking and monitoring agent statuses can be used in various ways from optimizing workforce management improving performance metrics and training new agents. It can also provide account managers context into which managers have the best performing teams and improve overall performance across the board. In order to create this report you would follow the same steps for one and two about the agents and the session type. And then you would select the agent activity timeline report, the time frame and download …And last but not least the performance metrics report is crucial for managing agents. When select it a list of available metrics is displayed based on the dataset selected. For example the agents and teams option has different available metrics when calls are selected then you will see for chats. This report allows you to drill down into really specific metric that you need to train enable or coach your agents. It can also empower you to identify top performers for recognition or opportunities for peer mentoring amongst agents and teams. To generate that report you will again select the agents you would like to see the data for, the session type, and then select the performance metrics report…You can decide to select all which will give you data for every single possible metric here on this page, or you may be interested in only specific information such as average wrap up time or longest wrap up time…Once you've selected the metrics you're looking for you will choose your time frame and download.

### Document - [Resources: Monitoring and Reporting](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/508996)

### Quiz - [Managing Agents Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/quizzes/508997)

## Calls

In this module, you learn the call routing methodology and configuration options with CCAIP. You also learn how to utilize the call metrics dashboard. The actions you can take from the calls connected, queued, and completed pages are included in this module. You also learn how to build historical reports for call data. 

### Document - [User Guide: Call Routing with CCAIP](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/508998)

### Document - [Resources: CCAIP Call Routing](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/508999)

### Video - [Call Monitoring](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/video/509000)

* [YouTube: Call Monitoring](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XiOkkJvBI9U)

…In this demo you learn to utilize the call metrics dash board to analyze the performance of the contact center and analyze the real time data and take actions from the calls connected queued and completed pages…The call dashboard shows both real time and aggregated data related to your contact center calls. You can get to the dashboard from the landing page by clicking this call button…or clicking on dashboard call…The first thing you'll see when you click on the dashboard is an x y axis of calls for this current day and how many calls are occurring at what time intervals. For instance in this sample we can see that a majority of our calls came in around twelve PM. And we can see the number is showing up as we hover over…the graph …The dashboard is mostly controlled by filters here queue groups, queue team and date…You can click on most of these tiles to drill into more detailed information…This call dashboard refreshes every twenty seconds. It includes only inbound call interact options including scheduled and overcapacity callback calls. It excludes short abandoned calls based on settings and operation management. It includes all channels…and excludes in menu abandoned calls …We won't review every single tile here but we'll go through a few that may be the most important to you as manager…The first would be this service level. It monitors the percentage of calls answered in x amount of seconds. Default and queue level metrics are set in operation management by the admin. When viewing the default view of the dashboard the globally configured SLA target is displayed. When viewing multiple queues or a queue group no target will be displayed when per queue metrics are set with queue level target metrics…The logged in agent tile will help with your agent monitoring. It will show you the number of agents logged in broken down by their status, you can click on the different parts of the chart to see the agents in each status and it will take you to the live agent monitoring page. Agent information will not appear until the following. Agents have to have taken a call or chat to show up in the dashboard as logged in. Agents have to be assigned the default agent role even if the custom role they have assigned contains agent permissions…With the live call tile this is the number of calls ongoing queued or in IVR menu…The average handle time is the average length of interactions…If you click on the average handle time tile, it will take you to the completed calls page…This tile here shows the queues with the highest number of calls waiting to be assigned an agent. As a manager you may want to check this tile to see if you should reassign agents according to consumer needs…Also queues with the longest estimated wait time would be a similar data point for you to examine to reassign agents or a agents have all of the information they need to get through consumers quickly and efficiently…Perhaps one of the most important tiles would be the CSAT one This is the average CSAT collected after call sessions. This can be considered the biggest indicator of customer health and status action. So some managers may prefer to start their analysis of the dashboard here in this section. It provides an overall score and can demonstrate an opportunity for improvement …A few things to keep in mind about the call dashboard. Reports and dashboards exclude calls abandoned during menu selection. Report data excludes voice mails whereas the call dashboard data includes voice mails. Historical report data generally includes short abandoned calls whereas the dashboard may not include this data based on settings in operation management. There is an exception for short abandoned call data If you download a historical report with aggregates of SLA, the short abundance will not be included in the calculations. However if you download a raw report of interactions, it will be there…Let's transition to calls connected queued and completed pages. The calls tab allows for a real time view of cued connected and completed calls. Admins and managers can view detailed information, listen in on live calls and view real time call staff…Users with the manager role will have restricted access to only agents on their assigned teams…Let's look at the calls connected page first …Here we can see all of the calls that are currently being handled by agents. There are different columns here to give you information on the assigned agent the call ID their current handle time, the type of call the queue they came from and more. You can also customize these columns…in order to get to the information you need the most…You can also click on the actions in this connected calls page to see call details…you can end a call. You can monitor which is where you can join the conversation, but neither the agent or consumer will know you're there. And you can barge in on the conversation if you want to be apart. Of the interaction and assist the agent in resolving the consumer inquiry …Setting notifications can be helpful across all monitoring but now is a good time to bring it up with calls. If you click on the bell symbol at the top of your page…you can view all notification rules and then add new notification rules…Here is the manager you could set notifications…around certain metrics that you want to be informed on when they're happening in your contact center…You could choose any or specific…and then you could choose an agent an agent team or queue. And then here is where you can determine the metric you wanna be notified about. If we choose queue, we can see that those metric options change …Let's go to the calls queued page. On queued calls we have a number of columns again that give you information on the calls that are waiting for agents. You can see assigned agents you could see the call ID how long they've been waiting, what queue they came into. And again you can customize these columns…You can also take actions from this page Those actions would be to see call details or end the call. This page is extremely beneficial…for real time queue adjustments. You may notice that certain queues have a higher volume of calls waiting to be handled. So you may need to assign more agents to those queues or consider deflection techniques with your system admin, and maybe even consider better training or coaching to resolve issues quicker so that you don't have as many calls waiting…If there is a consistent issue and queued calls always coming from the same queue or group of agents, then it could be worth discussing various routing options, maybe a direct access point for VIPs, queue prioritization, or virtual agent assistance…that could help ensure consumers could help as quickly and efficiently as possible…Finally let's look at the calls completed page …Here we have a number of columns again that have similar metrics such as the agent the call ID the handle time, the type of call and the queue, you can customize those columns …As far as actions on the completed calls page, you will be able to see call details. In the call details, if the contact center software is connected to the CRM, And if you're storing recordings to the CRM, then that ticket will be a link here that you as the manager will be able click into to go to the CRM and access the recording …

### Video - [Call Reports](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/video/509001)

* [YouTube: Call Reports](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YwvbhEf2zm4)

…In this demo you learn to build historical reports for calls…Call reports offer much needed insight into agent Q and overall contact center effectiveness. In this video we'll discuss historical reports for calls observe how to build certain reports and consider best practices. As a reminder permissions for the downloadable reports under agents in teams calls and chats queues and campaigns…can be used to limit access to assigned teams only or assigned queues only. For example when it comes to reports for calls and chats when a report is downloaded the report only contains data for calls and chats that were completed by members of that user teams… Let's review the options that are available in the report for calls and chats…On our top navigation bar if we click on reports we can click on calls and chats to bring us to this page where we can build our report. Our first step is to select the session type This module is about calls, so we will stay with the calls selection…For the second step we need to select the call types. So this would be what you want to include in the report, and some of the selection here could vary based on your contact center configuration …The third step is to select the reports desired. So the performance metrics report is our first option. Here is an opportunity for you to select certain metrics on a granular level. One report that could be extremely beneficial for your role would be to review calls where agents got a high or low CSAT rating. This is dependent on configuration but this would be an extremely good indicator of coaching opportunities, onboarding practices, and more …The individual call history report is another option. This is individual session interaction history for the session type selected. Individual CSV files are created for each agent selected …With this report you could answer questions like what were five call IDs that an agent handled last week, or what was the queue time for call three two six five last week …The last report option is the dispositions report. This report will include the disposition codes that an agent assigned to the interactions after the call was completed…Once you've decided which report you want run or perhaps you want to run more than one type of report. You'll also choose your filters for time frame and time zone and then download…

### Document - [Resources: Call Data](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/509002)

### Document - [Activity: Download a Historical Report for Calls](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/509003)

### Quiz - [Calls Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/quizzes/509004)

## Chats

In this module, you learn the chat routing methodology and configuration options with CCAIP. You also learn how to utilize the chat metrics dashboard. The actions you can take from the chats connected, queued, and completed pages are included in this module. You also learn how to build historical reports for chat data. 

### Document - [Chat with CCAIP](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/509005)

### Video - [Chat Monitoring](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/video/509006)

* [YouTube: Chat Monitoring](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=22lIlRNJjPc)

…In this demo you learn to utilize the chat metrics dash board to analyze the performance of the contact center and analyze the real time data and take actions from the chats connected queued and completed page …The chat dashboard can be found by clicking through the different chat options here on the landing page whether web and mobile or SMS…or you can click on dashboard…chat…The chat dashboard shows both real time and aggregated data It can be filtered for various configurations and you can drill into data by clicking to see filtered pages…In tandem with the chat dashboard we highly recommend using the data dictionary to confirm you have a firm grasp on the definitions all the metrics featured…The data refreshes at varying rates every twenty seconds for live data every sixty seconds for service level data every five minutes for daily aggregated data…Here at the top we have an x y axis that should look familiar because the same style as the call metrics. You'll be able to see the time of day along the bottom and the number of chats here on the side …If you keep scrolling you can see that this entire page can be filtered by queue groups , queue, team and date…Here you have a lot of the same options as the call metrics dashboard. You can see the service level you can see the logged in agents who are assigned to chat queues and what their status is You can click through the different parts of this chart and it will take you to the live agent monitoring page. You can see how many live chats are connected…How many chats handled up to this point and the average handle time? In your actual tenant there will be data here in all of these tiles you'll be able to see average handle time, the volume repeat contacts and that average CSAT score which is so crucial for you as managers to review…Let's jump over to chats connected queued and completed. We can get there by coming to our top navigation bar and selecting chats…connected… Each of these three pages generally has the same layout and functionality with slight variations depending on the chat status. The most notable variation is the ability to view live chats from the chat's connected page …All chat pages show chats for the current day based on the time zone of your computer. And chat monitoring pages are also subject to roles and permissions…Many of the column titles you see here are similar to the ones we reviewed and the module on calls, but you can again see the agents the chat ID the current handle time, you can also customize the columns to be sure you are seeing the that you need to analyze the data for your connected chats. And from the actions tab you can view the live chat…You can see chat details and you can end the chat. Let's review the chat's queued page If we click on chats queued…we can search for chats by ID or queue name, we can again customize the columns we want to see here for all of our queued chats. These are chats that are in the queue waiting to be connected to an agent. The actions available to you here in the queued chats page would be to click on the actions arrow and then view detail about the chat…Because this chat actually hasn't been connected yet, usually that means you'll be able to see the chat ID number, the chat status which will say queued and then the queue that they are attempting to reach… Let's go to chats…completed…Chats that have ended or are dismissed when using dismiss inactive chats will appear here on this page. The status for dismiss chats on the completed chats page will be dismissed…inactive end user…You can use the search field to look for specific chats, or you can also look by agent queue name or chat ID…You can click on the actions arrow to see the details about the chat. This will now include…information about the agent that handled the chat, the queue that it was in the ID, the start time end time handle time Csat, wait time. So there's lots of great information on this completed chats page that you can take from the chat details action…It's also important to note that if the contact center software is connected to the CRM when clicking on these completed chats, chat details , there would be a link to the CRM ticket where you could go through to explore the chat transcript…

### Video - [Chat Reports](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/video/509007)

* [YouTube: Chat Reports](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kc0JgpaD0kE)

In this demo, you learn to build historical reports for chats and leverage session data reports. …When we want to build a historical downloadable report for chats, we navigate to reports, calls and chats. For step one we will select the session type. Right now we're talking about chats So that's what we will select. For step two we will select the types of chats we want to include in the reports. This will vary depending on your contact center's configuration…For demo purposes we will just select a couple of different options here …For step three we will select the type of report. The first type is the performance metrics report. This is the report where you can drill down into a lot of granular data points for your analysis. As the manager you may be especially interested in average handle time, average queue duration , lowest CSAT rating and average CSAT rating, Those metrics will enable you to have coaching conversations with your agents strategize with the contact center admin on queue configuration for optimal efficiency. Problem solve why handle times may be longer in certain queues and revisit training and onboarding materials for agents to try and increase CSAT…The individual chat history report will be an extremely large file depending on the time frame you select. …When you download that report here is what you will get in your file …Whatever the time frame is you selected you'll be able to see the chat ID, a link to the ticket, if you are connected to CRM. The start time the agent, the CSAT score, the chapteration wrap up handle weight session type, and…The columns continue here with other information points such as language the queue the priority…So depending on the time frame this could be an extremely large file but it will give you…as much information as you could want about those individual chat interactions…The last report will be the disposition report. Here you can select a time frame and analyze the interactions by the disposition codes that the agents use after a completed chat session. As the last step you will choose your time frame, time zone and then download the file. …The next type of report we'll review is the session data report. This can be used for calls or chats. But we'll review it now in the chat module. If you navigate to reports…session data…You can select the session type Right now we're discussing chats so that's what we'll select. And here you can enter a chat ID. So this report is gonna provide a detailed account of all the sessions handled. So this is meant for a more in-depth analysis of the specific…call or chat. As a diagnostic tool, you can map the entire customer journey across a chat or call to determine where it dropped. You can enter the JSON data into a quality assurance program to assist with a specific defined analysis…A note on permissions with this when assigned teams only is selected in the permissions only sessions that were handled by the user's teams will display.

### Document - [Resources: Chat Data and Reporting](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/509008)

### Document - [Activity: Build a Historical Report for Chat](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/509009)

### Quiz - [Chats Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/quizzes/509010)

## Queues

In this module, you learn to review and analyze queue-level data in CCAIP. This includes live monitoring and historical reporting.

### Video - [Queue Monitoring](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/video/509011)

* [YouTube: Queue Monitoring](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M1KVy_aos48)

…In the… demo you learn to leverage the queues live monitoring page including filters and actions, and review the performance metrics dashboard…In CCAI platform, the term queues refers to the overall contact center structure for the menu of options consumers can choose from when they reach out via call or chat. The queue structure will be created during your initial implementation and then maintained by your admin. While as the manager you will not be able to modify queues you can modify queue assignments for agents. This allows you to shift agent responsibilities to match the needs of your contact center at any given time. Q configuration has hundreds of possibilities so please keep in mind as you engage with this module what you see may vary from the way your contact center is configured. Here are a few more details to note about queues. Due to the number of digits on a keypad there's a nine top level queue menu limit. If you need to have more than nine queues, nest more queues within a top level queue. All numbers assigned to your will default to the top of the queue unless otherwise assigned as direct access points. And if you are using multiple languages numbers will default to the language select message, then when the language is selected, we'll route to the top of the menu structure for its selected queue. Per your role if you would like to shift agent assignments at the queue level you'll navigate to settings, queue, And let's choose IVR you can click on anywhere in this tile to edit in view…Here you can see that the queue… structure is shown on the left We can see that if the consumer calls in through IVR , They'll push one for general support two for q two three for manager assistance, and so forth…Again as the manager what you'll be able to do at this level will not be modifying any settings beyond…adding agents. So if you scroll here you'll see the human agents are assigned there are only two agents assigned to this queue. If you click edit you can assign more agents either individually or by teams …Let's focus on reporting as it relates to queues and what will be most relevant to you as a manager. We'll start with the queue reports dashboard. This dashboard is based on…queue groups. Those groups are organized by the system admin. They can use this function to group together related queues such as those handled by the same BPO market or manager such as yourself. The key reports dashboard gives you a detailed live overview of your Q group and the queues within each group. This dashboard is well suited for monitoring the day to day performance and status of your operation…Some details about these metrics here Only inbound interactions are available in the dashboards…because outbound…Calls are not associated with a queue They are not included on this dashboard. Q selection must be completed to show in the dashboard. And in menu abandoned are not represented in dashboards currently. From the top left of the queue group's dashboard page you can toggle between two different views. One view shows metrics at the queue group level, and the other shows detailed metrics for each queue within their queue group. On the right you can also decide to see…all interactions which will include call and chat, or you could do show call only or show chat only …If you click on this gear it will take you to the queue groups page where you can create queue groups or edit existing ones…The queue group's summary which is the view we're looking at now displays detailed information on the health of your enabled voice and chat q groups. Each row represents one of your q groups with the exception of the totals row which displays an aggregate of all q groups. The columns show metric totaled or average depending on the metric for all queues in the queue groups. The time frame was set to today and all call and chat queue groups show on the same page. With the queue group details view this shows metrics from one queue group at time. The queue group selected from the drop down in the upper right view…shows each queue as a separate line item and the individual metrics for each queue in the enabled queue groups …A few more notes about the data here It is categorized into three sections. We have service level metrics displayed in this section are tied to service level which the system admin creates in settings and operation management. It has live queue metrics So these metrics displayed in this section reflect the live current state of the queue group. Live agent status. This is the current count of agents in a status or status category. You can click on any metric within the live agents section to drill down and see additional details including a list of the agents in their respective status …And then finally we have today. These metrics displayed in this section are aggregated across the current day. Time zone is typically set by your browser unless otherwise specified by your admin team …Let's switch gears to the performance metrics dash board While this is not a Q specific dashboard, it is extremely important to know how to analyze the high level overview of your support center which is dependent on the queue structure for both calls and chats. We can get there by going to dashboard…performance metrics …This dashboard is split into two primary sections, global metrics and SLA tricks. A few details about this page Only inbound interactions are represented because outbound calls are not associated with the queue They are not included. Queue selection must be completed to show in the dashboard…and menu abandoned are not represented…You can select time filters for this page So it could be today the past twenty four hours or this quarter…For global metrics the left hand tile contains call specific data while the right hand tile contains chat data. The top of the SLA metrics shows…two charts for call SLA and chat SLA respectively. The time range displayed here is representative of the time range selected at the top right of the page. The SLA displayed represents the total SLA across the support center. This section below will help you quickly identify how many sessions are falling below the set SLA threshold. There are three preconfigured thresholds displayed by default …SLA that is greater or equal to eighty. SLA that is either greater than sixty or less than eighty and SLA that is either less or equal to sixty. And the final section on this dashboard will give you insight into the average handle time for your highest volume queues. Up to five Kives show at a time and the volume shows everything including abandoned interactions …Now let's review the queues monitoring page. To get there we will click on the top dashboard queues…The queues page provides an overview of queue configurations, a live view of the queue activity as well as data calculated for the past twenty four hours…This page is a great way to see a granular view and especially note how many chats are waiting or calls are waiting in queues…The data here includes all activity for call and or chat queues that have been set up for the account. Columns can be customized to show various details such as the number of agents…and those agent statuses…queue priority number of calls and more. You can also perform important actions by adding agents or viewing call volume um you can do that from clicking actions. Here you can see add agents, or you can also navigate to those live monitoring pages for calls. And it will be the same within the chat page. Actions you can add agents to the chat queue And you can view the live monitoring pages for chats…Another important feature to note is the search queue in the upper left there's a search field where you can enter the queue name or a partial queue name. This will then only show those queues to make locating specific cues in large organizations…much easier. As you type, it will go ahead and narrow down those queues that are in the bottom …Right now we are looking at a chart that includes every single possible column. In order to see the other columns that are listed here you can scroll over within the chart to see the q priority type breakdown status breakdown, total volume, average volume per hour, average seasat, lowest seasat, average handle time longest handle time average wait time longest wait time average hold time longest hold time and repeat contact. This is a great way to monitor your queues and their efficiency and to make adjustments in real time to ensure the average handle time is low, which will increase see that … If we toggle to the chats page it contains many of the same columns here …So you're able to make the same informed decisions about your consumers' needs and how to best meet them … …In CCAI platform, the term queues refers to the overall contact center structure for the menu of options consumers can choose from when they reach out via call or chat. The cue store sure will be created during your initial implementation and then maintained by your admin. While as the manager you will not be able to modify queues you can modify queue assignments for agents. This allows you to shift agent responsibilities to match the needs of your contact center at any given time…Q configuration has hundreds of possibilities so please keep in mind as you engage with this module what you see may vary from the way your contact center is configured cleared. Here are a few more details to note about queues. Due to the number of digits on a keypad there's a nine top level queue menu limit. If you need to have more than nine queues, nest more queues within a top level queue. All numbers assigned to your environment will default to the top of the queue unless otherwise assigned as direct access points. And if you are using multiple languages numbers will default to the language selection message, then when the language is selected we'll route to the top of the menu structure for the selected queue. Per your role if you would like to shift agent assignments at the queue level you'll navigate to settings…queue. And let's choose IVR you can click on anywhere in this tile to edit and view …Here you can see that the queue…structure is shown on the left We can see that if the consumer calls in through IVR, They'll push one for general support two for q two three for manager assistance, and so forth …Again as the manager what you'll be able to do at this level will not be modifying any settings beyond adding agents. So if you scroll here you'll see the human agents are assigned there are only two agents assigned to this queue If you click edit you can assign more agents either individually or by teams…Let's focus on reporting as it relates to queues and what will be most relevant to you as a manager. We'll start with the queue report dashboard. This dashboard is based on…queue groups. Those groups are organized by the system admin, They can use this function to group together related queues such as those handled by the same BPO market or manager such as yourself. The queue reports dashboard gives you a detailed live overview of your queue groups and the queues within each group. This dashboard is well suited for monitoring the day performance and status of your operation… Some details about these metrics here Only inbound interactions are available in the dashboards because outbound…calls are not associated with a queue They are not included on this dashboard. Q selection must be completed to show in the dashboard. And in menu abandoned are not represented in dashboards currently. From the top left of the queue group's dashboard page you can toggle between two different views. One view shows metrics at the queue group level and the other shows detailed metrics for each queue within their queue group…On the right you can also decide to see …all interactions which will include call and chat. Or you could do show call only or show chat only…If you click on this gear it will take you to the queue groups page where you can create queue groups or edit existing ones…The queue groups summary which is the view we're looking at now displays detailed information on the health of your enabled voice and chat cue groups. Each row represents one of your queue groups with the exception of the totals row which displays an aggregate of all queue groups. The columns show metric totaled or average depending on the metric for all queues in the queue groups. The time frame is always set to today and all call and chat q groups show on the same page. With the q group details view this shows metrics from one q group at a time. The queue group selected from the drop down in the upper right view…shows each queue as a separate line item and the individual metrics for each queue in the enabled queue groups …A few more notes about the data here It is categorized into three sections. We have service level metrics displayed in this section are tied to service level which the system admin creates in settings and operation management. It has live queue metrics So these metrics displayed in this section reflect the live current state of the queue group. Live agent status. This is the current count of agents in a status or status category. You can click on any metric within the live agent to drill down and see additional details including a list of the agents in their respective status…And then finally we have today …These metrics displayed in this section are aggregated across the current day. Time zone is typically set by your browser unless otherwise specified by your admin team …Let's switch gears to the performance metrics dashboard. While this is not a q specific dashboard, It is extremely important to know how to analyze the high level overview of your support center which is dependent on the queue structure, for both calls and chats. We can get there by going to dashboard…performance metrics …This dashboard is split into two primary sections, global metrics, and SLA metrics. A few details about this page Only inbound interactions are represented because outbound calls are not associated with the queue They are not included. Queue selection must be completed to show in the dashboard, and menu abandoned are not represented…You can select time filters for this page So it could be today the past twenty four hours or this quarter…For global metrics the left hand tile contains call specific data while the right hand tile contains chat data. The top of the SLA metrics shows…two charts for call SLA and chat SLA respectively. The time range displayed here is representative of the time range selected at the top right of the page. The SLA displayed represents the total SLA across the support center. This section below will help you quickly identify how many sessions are falling below the set SLA threshold. There are three preconfigured thresholds displayed by default …SLA that is greater or equal to eighty. SLA that is either greater than sixty or less than eighty , and SLA that is either less or equal to sixty. And the final section on this dashboard will give you insight into the average handle time for your highest volume queues. Up to five cubes show at a time and the volume shows everything including abandoned interactions …Now let's review the queues monitoring page. To get there we will click on the top dashboard queues…The queues page provides an overview of queue configurations, a live view of the queue activity as well as data calculated for the past twenty four hours…This page is a great way to see a granular view and especially note how many chats are waiting or calls are waiting in queues…The data here includes all activity for call and or chat queues that have been set up for the account. Columns can be customized to show various details such as the number of agents…and those agent statuses…q priority number of calls and more. You can also perform important actions by adding agents or viewing call volume. You can do that from clicking actions. Here you can see add agents, or you can also navigate to those live monitoring pages for calls , and it will be the same within the chat page. Actions you can add agents to the chat queue and you can view the live monitoring pages for chats…Another important feature to note is the search queue in the upper left there's a search field where you can enter the queue name or a partial queue name. This will then only show those queues to make locating specific queues in large organizations… much easier…As you type, it will go ahead and narrow down those queues that are in the bottom…Right now we are looking at a chart that includes every single possible column. In order to see the other columns that are listed here you can scroll over within the chart…to see the q priority type breakdown status breakdown, total volume, average volume per hour, average seasat, lowest seasat, average handle time longest handle time average wait time longest wait time average hold time longest hold time and repeat contact. This is a great way to monitor your queues and their efficiency and to make adjustments in real time to ensure the average handle time is low which will increase CSAT … If we toggle to the chats page it contains many of the same columns here …So you're able to make the same informed decisions about your consumers' needs and how to best meet them.

### Video - [Queue Reports](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/video/509012)

* [YouTube: Queue Reports](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nitOYDFdcKI)

…In this demo you learn to build historical reports for queues. Let's explore the options available to you when it comes to historical reports for queues. In order to build the reports, will navigate to the top bar and click reports, and then queues. For the first step we'll decide if we want to download a report on all queues or select queues. With select queues you can start typing the name of the queue and it will populate…And then you can select the queues you would like…For step two we will select the session type. Here we could select calls…or chats…And in the next step you have many different reports that can be selected. I want to highlight a few. The first is the queue summary…all interactions report…This report provides a summary including all interactions including transfers to the same or different queues. This includes the first time that the interaction entered a queue and subsequent entries to a queue after the work was accepted by an agent. This report displays the number of queue interactions by queue for each day. For the queue interactions for each date the report provides a breakdown of how the interactions exited the queue. Once you've downloaded this report it does displays a number…of metrics. It has the queue name…and the queue interactions. Which is the number of times that an interaction entered a queue which includes the first time that the interaction entered a queue and subsequent entries to a queue after the work was accepted by an agent. Q abandons, average queue abandoned time which is the average time from when an interaction enters queue but disconnects by the caller before the interaction is accepted by an agent. Q abandoned rate percentage, short abandons, long abandons, average speed of answer, max speed to answer, SLA percentage…handled, which is the sum of interactions that were handled, average talk time, the average length of time that the agent spent talking to a consumer. This metric doesn't include hold time or wrap up time. Average hold time is included here average wrap up time average handle time. That's the average time across all handled interactions that elapse from when an agent accepts an interaction to when they end their wrap up phase…We also have failed calls…transfer count …and we have average CSAT score. If you want the queue summary all interactions report, your last step will be to choose the time frame and time zone and click download…Moving on to the second type of report I want to highlight. This is the all queued interactions report…This report provides insights to configured SLAs including thresholds and service level event status. This report does include transfer details specifically cold transfer where a transfer occurs without prior notification to its recipient. This report does not include any handled metrics. There are a number of different metrics included in this report Some that were not in the previous report we discussed would be the started at and ended at time. Q time the time from when an interaction enters a queue until it is either answered or the caller abandons, agent name ID and email the language of the queue transfer service level event service level target time, service level abandoned time threshold interaction type, cold transfer event status and interaction ID…The final report I'll highlight is the Q summary distinct interactions report. This report provides a summary of all distinct queued interactions. Distinct queued interactions…the metric queue entries only counts the first queue entry for the interaction. If a call is transferred to a second queue only one queue entry is counted for the interaction. This does not include any transfers. The report provides insights to configured SLAs including all hand and abandoned metrics. This report can be used to reflect on the distinct count of contacts into your business. If you would like the queue summary distinct interactions…or if you were gonna go with the all queued interactions, again your last step would be to choose the time frame time zone and download…

### Document - [Resources: Queue Data](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/509013)

### Document - [Activity: Build and Download a Historical Report for Queues](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/509014)

### Quiz - [Queues Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/quizzes/509015)

## Campaigns

In this module, you learn to review live performance for campaigns and analyze historical data. 

### Video - [Campaign Management](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/video/509016)

* [YouTube: Campaign Management](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KhiOG5kiyNU)

…In this demo you learn to recognize the different campaign types that are available with CCAIP…create a new campaign and edit existing campaigns. Review reporting data for campaigns and build historical reports for…campaigns. As managers you can edit and view the campaign manager in CCAIP. The campaign feature is the outbound dialer. Before we go into the platform and tour how to create and monitor campaigns, let's do a quick overview of the campaign types available. The first is predictive campaigns. The goal of a predictive campaign is to predict how many contacts need to be dialed in order to efficiently connect consumers and agents. The campaign will dial multiple consumers simultaneously hoping to connect one of the reserved agents to a consumer. The number of contacts dialed in order to connect one agent to a live consumer is referred to as the over dial ratio. This ratio was then used to balance the number of agents available with the number of live consumers to minimize the number of abandoned calls. In order to save the agent time the system will screen out busy signals disconnected numbers fax numbers and voicemails and move on to the next consumer…Once CCAIP detects a live caller it connects the consumer to one of the reserved agents. If no agent is available when the live color is detected the call will be abandoned…The next type of campaign is the preview campaign. In a preview dialer campaign agents make the dial manually but the calling list is generated automatically from the campaign list. Agents have an unlimited amount of time to read or preview information about the contact before initiating the outbound dial. When running a preview campaign the agent will see the contact information for the next consumer in the list and any other relevant information that was uploaded for that consumer. The agent can dial that consumer when they are ready or they can choose to skip. And lastly, the progressive campaign. In a progressive campaign an agent is reserved for the consumers on the campaign list. Since the agent is reserved there is no over dialing ratio or requirements required since the agent is always in a one to one ratio with the consumers. When utilizing a progressive campaign, agents are automatically provided a preview of the consumer CRM record in the background when the call is dialed. To learn more about the campaign types configuration and setting options and requirements, please visit the CCAIP documentation. And on an important note, Different regions of the world have different laws on outbound dialing and campaigns. So please consult with your legal counsel prior to setting up this feature. Now that we've reviewed the campaign types let's walk through the demo on how to set up a campaign and monitor it. To edit campaigns you should navigate to campaign manager here on the top navigation bar. From here you'll be able to view the campaigns that are in progress. More on that in a moment. But you'll notice at the top you can toggle between two views, call or SMS. You can set up campaigns for either. To create a new campaign, you'll click add campaign…The first thing you'll do is name your campaign, then you'll be able to choose which mode you would like to use …Once you've done that you'll upload your campaign list. At a minimum this should have the consumers first and last name and phone number. But there are other options of what you can include so please see the documentation…From there you will assign the campaign to a queue… Then you will determine the number of redials in the time interval between those attempts. And lastly you can assign a time zone schema more on that in the documentation. Once you're finished, you will click save…For SMS campaigns , you will upload the CSV file with consumer phone numbers. Then you will select the outbound phone number that is designated for this SMS campaign…and enter the message you would like to send to consumers. And then click send. Once the campaigns are in progress you can view many different metrics by clicking here next to the campaign progress bar …You'll be able to see the different sections such as reached, not yet reached, not reached and redialed. We'll give you a breakdown just in terms of numbers for…maybe ones that are upcoming or connected. Calls that have finished, ones that had a carrier error or general error or an invalid number, etcetera. You can also edit and delete the campaigns here. For live monitoring of your campaigns, you can click on dashboard call and go see those cues that were designated for the campaign and how they're doing. You can do something similar from the agents monitoring page Here you can look for the agents or teams that are assigned to that dialing campaign and view their data. Same with queues. You can check on the queues that you've assigned for the outbound campaign and under calls connected queued and completed, you will be able to monitor those campaign calls as well. Now for downloadable report…Under agents and teams you can select…certain agents and teams that you want reports on as they are assigned to the campaigns. You can do the same thing with calls and chats…When you're making your selections, you can choose to get data for voice outbound…And if you switch it over to chats you could also do it for outbound SMS…The most comprehensive…reporting data will be under campaigns…For this type of downloadable report you will select the campaign time at the top…then you can select the campaigns you want data for It could be all of them or perhaps you want just one or a few …then you can select the report you would like. Whether it's a summary report detailed report or disposition report, you'll notice as you select different campaign types those different report names change…For more information on what metrics those reports contain please see the documentation. The last step will be to choose your time frame and time zone, and then you will click download…

### Document - [Activity: Build a Historical Report for Campaigns](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/509017)

### Document - [Resources: Monitoring and Reporting for Campaigns](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/509018)

## Virtual Agent

In this module, you learn to review and analyze Virtual Agent data through live monitoring and historical reporting. 

### Video - [Virtual Agent Monitoring and Reporting](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/video/509019)

* [YouTube: Virtual Agent Monitoring and Reporting](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rk6XtK5htVE)

…In this demo you learn to analyze the data on the virtual agent board and build historical reports for virtual agents …Monitoring the performance of your virtual agents is extremely important. When leveraging virtual agents for your contact center, here are some benefits. VA's will provide a business with twenty four seven coverage anytime anywhere reducing costs. Potentially this could save the business having to employ extra agents. They can provide assistance to the human agent and it is proven to improve average handle time. VAs can lead to better lead generation. They can improve the customer experience and provide faster resolutions…and they can also improve CSAT. A virtual agent helps you stay in touch with your consumers and provide quick responses to them even if your contact center is closed. VAs can save a lot of time and also reduce the workload for your agents. And this means agents can have more time to resolving more complex issues…When it comes to virtual agent reporting the considerations of what is and is not effective data can vary depending on the contact center. Some contact centers might only use virtual agents to deflect during non working hours, in which case managers might only care about their plan transfer data. Some contact centers may regularly use VA's in conversations with consumers for a variety of purposes, in which case much of the other data would be crucial such as Csat score average handle time escalations, resolved by the agent etcetera. So as we review VA reporting in this module please keep in mind that the standards you wish to adhere to and monitoring and reporting will vary depending on the usage of your virtual agents… For more information about everything covered in this module please see the CCAIP… documentation…Let's start with the virtual agent live monitoring dashboard. We can get here by clicking dashboard and then virtual agent. At the top of the dashboard we can see a selection of filters. We have a date filter. The data can be viewed on the day. Today. This allows you as the manager to see individual or team performance from a near real time perspective. To see current data a refresh would need to be applied. Your other options are yesterday, last seven days and last thirty days. Then there's a filter for start time and end time. If you as a manager or another manager has a team of agents that only work to find hours, they may only want to see the performance of the agents during that time slot. The next filter is for virtual agent It may be one virtual agent that you were looking see performance on or a selection, and the final filter is for queue name. All virtual agents will need to be configured to a queue. Let's look at the summary metrics. Here we can see the total virtual agent interactions. This metric displays the sum of interactions where the virtual agent was offered to consumers. The total human agent initiated interactions This is measuring the total number of times that a human agent initiated a virtual agent session…and average messages per session This is measuring the average number of messages per session across all interactions…Keep in mind a session is one single communication stream. Sessions have multiple interactions…We can also see total messages exchanged… This metric is capturing the total number of messages that have been exchanged across all interactions. The resolution rate percentage this is the percentage of interaction across all the virtual agent interactions that were resolved by the VA without the need to escalate to a human agent. Total consumer initiated interactions. This represents the total number of interactions that were initiated by a consumer. Then we have the virtual agent interactions by thirty minute interval chart. This displays all VA interactions that have been handled in thirty minute intervals. If a filter is applied to see multiple days the intervals will change and reflect results for each day. By hovering over the values in the chart you able to drill down from here to see the intervals and outcomes. And beneath that chart we have performance metrics…Resolved by VA is the number of virtual agent call interactions that the VA resolved. A resolved interaction is one where the VA resolves the issue for the consumer and get some acknowledgement during the interaction that it has done so. A plan transfer indicates when the voice virtual agent for the call to a human agent through planned interaction. For example the VA understood what the consumer was requesting and send them to the proper queue or agent…Escalated, this metric represents the sum of interactions where the VA was unable to handle the issue and escalated it to a queue where a human agent is assigned…The total abandoned is the number of interactions that started with the VA and abandoned before connecting …The average abandoned time signifies the average time it took across all interactions before the consumer abandoned…Average handle time is the average entire handle time across all the VA interactions…Average sentiment score will is perhaps one of the most important data points for VA's. This is the average sentiment score across all the interactions. A sentiment score is a metric for measuring customer sentiment. Positive words identified are given a plus score whilst negative words are awarded a minus score. The scores are then combined and averaged out across all the interactions, and that's the metric you see here. For CSAT, That's the average C Set score out of all the customer satisfaction scores awarded to the interactions and then these are captured after the interaction ends …Next we have the fallback response. A fallback response is triggered when the VA doesn't understand or recognize the consumer's message. This can sometimes be referred to as the rate of misunderstanding…The message the virtual agent might use…would be I'm sorry I don't understand your question or something of that nature. When that happens the VA will apply the fallback response a maximum of three times. If the VA still doesn't understand what the consumer is asking for the interaction will automatically transfer or escalate the interaction to a human agent. The two metrics provided here related to this would be the fallback response rate percentage and fallback response count. The fallback response count is providing the sum of interactions where the VA applied the fallback response as configured in CCAIP…To the right of the metrics there is an interval chart which pegs all the VA interactions where the fallback response was utilized. The chart displayed by thirty minute intervals when viewing one day's worth of data If a filter is applied to see multiple days the intervals will change and reflect results for each day. At the bottom of the dashboard, there are four charts. These indicate the status and performance of your virtual agents. The first chart we see provides the names of the virtual agents that are active It displays the virtual agent name and the total number of virtual agent interactions that have been handled. The chart to the right displays the resolution rate for each virtual agent that is active in your tenant. The performance is shown as a percentage. A resolved interaction is one where the VA resolves the issue for the consumer and there has not been a need to escalate the interaction to a human agent. The top queues chart is demonstrating the distribution of the VA interactions by queue. Each queue where there is a VA active is showing the count of interactions that the VA has handled. Finally the last chart demonstrates status of each of the VA's that are configured in CCAIP. If there are multiple VA's that have been configured they will be listed here and you will be able to see if they are online or inactive…

### Document - [Resources: Virtual Agent](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/509020)

### Quiz - [Virtual Agent Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/quizzes/509021)

## Use Cases and Examples

In this module, you explore various real-life scenarios and have the opportunity to practice your skills.

### Video - [Reassign Resources Based on Volume](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/video/509022)

* [YouTube: Reassign Resources Based on Volume](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K8DKVz8cCtw)

…In this demo you learn to analyze queue volume and reassign agents and teams based on the needs of the contact center …C CAIP…makes it easier than ever to reassign agents and teams based on volume. If we look at the call dashboard, you can get a real time overview of queue volume and where there might be a need for additional agents or teams. There are a few ways we can do this and call dashboard is the first. If we scroll down we can look at the tile where it says queues…highest traffic…Here we can see that the IVR Q two sub q one… has three hundred and twenty two calls…and we may want to add agents to this queue because the volume is so high. We can do this by clicking the plus agent button and a window will appear. Here you can either type in the agent name or team name and they will populate as you type the first few letters. We could decide to assign tier two team to this queue to add additional agents. Or we could search for the agent name and assign them. Once we've made our selection, we can click assign agent and then excel. The other way you can analyze the volume and then add agents if they are needed is to examine the queues monitoring page. If we click on queues…we can review the list here to see the queues that have long estimated wait times…or high average handle times…If we scroll over…we can see total volume…and the average volume per hour. And the average handle time Here we can see again this queue has quite a bit of volume and we may decide we want to add additional agents or teams to this queue assignment. We can do that by clicking actions, add agents. That same window will appear where you can either type in an agent name or team name, click assign and then exit. As the manager, you could make adjustments to assignments under settings, users and teams. If you scroll to the teams section, you may know off the top of your head that tier two is assigned to a high volume queue. There's only three agents assigned to tier two so you may want to assign additional agents. If you click on the team, you could decide to add team managers if you think that's part of the issue. You could also add additional team members so that tier two has more support to handle that high volume queue…You can of course adjust agent and team assignments at the queue editing level. So if we click on settings and queue, And then IVR again you can click here in this title or edit view. If we know our general support queue the top queue, has the highest volume. We could make those assignment adjustments here next to human agents, edit human agent assignments…We could decide to add additional team members here. We could decide to add additional agents individually…or assign teams by typing in those agent names or teams and then clicking save…

### Video - [Audit Calls and Change Agent Statuses](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/video/509023)

* [YouTube: Audit Calls and Change Agent Statuses](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I2sJKp6kgq0)

…In this demo you learn to audit calls and access call recordings and remotely change an agent's status…Auditing calls is a crucial part of the contact center manager team manager or supervisor role. In this use case video we'll explore how you can review calls in order to check the pulse of agent competency training and confirm consumers are receiving the best service in your contact center. In this demo CCAI platform is using Salesforce as its CRM, It's also using call recordings. The experience and look of this particular use case may vary depending on your configuration and CRM…For the purpose of this video let's imagine you have received some alarmingly low csat scores and feedback recently. You want to investigate why this might be happening in order to ensure agents are trained properly assigned to queues that best meet their skill set and onboard new agents with the proper information to ensure they can handle any and all issues from consumers…The first step will be to identify the calls associated with the low CSAT scores of late and listen to them via your CRM records and then make informed decisions for your team. If we navigate to the call metrics dashboard as you see here on the screen, We can look back at the history of today and scroll to the CSAT tile … When we last checked a few hours ago this average was at a five. Now it has dropped to a three point six six…That's quite a drop So we want to look into this. From there we'll go to the calls completed page. Now we can see that there have been three calls…The first two calls had csat ratings of a five, and the other call by this agent was significantly lower. For more information we can scroll through this chart to see the journey the consumer took to ultimately get to this agent. I e the q, etcetera …We wanna check this call recording. Why did this consumer walk away from the interaction so dissatisfied? If we copy and paste the call ID, and go into the Salesforce platform and copy and paste it again into the search bar. It will populate This exact call ID which includes the case number and the subject and all the other information …From there let's click into the case…Now we'll see even more information about this consumer and a history of all of their cases. If we click on the activity tab at the top, we can scroll and see that yes this consumer did in fact leave a very low c set rating. If we expand these activity lines here we'll expose the call recording length and we can see where it is being stored. It could be stored here in the CRM or an external storage bucket And this particular use case it's being stored in a Google cloud storage bucket? If we take that external link and paste it into the browser …This will prompt a download of the MP three file. And if you visit your recent downloaded files you should see it there. You can now play the call recording to audit the conversation between the agent and consumer …After listening to the conversation and confirming ways the agent could have handled the issue better more efficiently and more effectively, you may want to pull that agent for an ad hoc training or coaching session. To do that we'll be back in CCAI Platt form and navigate to the agents monitoring page. We can see that agent is in the available status. We'll override her status something like special task in training or back office task. Now you can reach out to the agent and set up an informal conversation via whatever interoffice communication tool you might leverage such as Google Meet.

### Video - [Monitor Calls and Chats](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/video/509024)

* [YouTube: Monitor Calls and Chats](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BDaBpUdGoE4)

…In this demo you learn to monitor a call or chat live and utilize call IDs and the CRM to learn more about consumer contact records…With just a few clicks managers have direct access to their team's live activities. And in particular they can monitor their team's ongoing calls and chats. In this demo CCAI platform is connected to Salesforce as its CRM. The experience and look of this particular use case may vary depending on your configuration and CRM…Typically managers and supervisors start here on the agent monitoring page. It offers an at a glance view of agents' current statuses…and activities…I can drill down for more information on any of the interactions that are happening live …In this case I'll open the call details panel. And quickly I can see what type of call it is in the Q through which it came…I can also see the handle time up until this point. From here, I can also click on the monitor button to monitor the call which will add me as a silent observer to the conversation…To learn more information about this consumer, I can click the hyperlink for the call ID which will direct me to the CRM record associated with this interaction … It is a similar flow for chats. This same agent is also on a chat which we can see here in the chart. If we drill down into that we can see all the chats they are handling concurrently. And on any one of them we can click to see those chat details or jump directly to monitor that chat live. We can also open the CRM case or ticket from here as well to see more information about the consumer…

### Document - [Resources: Workflow Resources](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/509025)

## Troubleshooting

In this module, you learn how to troubleshoot common issues, utilize data to resolve issues, and reach out to support. 

### Document - [Troubleshooting Basics](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/documents/509026)

### Quiz - [Troubleshooting Quiz](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/course_templates/958/quizzes/509027)

## Your Next Steps

### Badge - [Course Badge](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google)
